1
2
0
2

l
u
J

4
1

]

G
L
.
s
c
[

1
v
2
0
0
7
0
.
7
0
1
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

The Benchmark Lottery

Mostafa Dehghani∗
Google Brain
dehghani@google.com

Yi Tay∗
Google Research
yitay@google.com

Alexey A. Gritsenko∗
Google Brain
agritsenko@google.com

Zhe Zhao
Google Brain
zhezhao@google.com

Neil Houlsby
Google Brain
neilhoulsby@google.com

Fernando Diaz
Google Brain
diazfernando@google.com

Donald Metzler†
Google Research
metzler@google.com

Oriol Vinyals†
DeepMind
vinyals@google.com

Abstract

The world of empirical machine learning (ML) strongly relies on benchmarks in
order to determine the relative effectiveness of different algorithms and methods.
This paper proposes the notion of a benchmark lottery that describes the overall
fragility of the ML benchmarking process. The benchmark lottery postulates that
many factors, other than fundamental algorithmic superiority, may lead to a method
being perceived as superior. On multiple benchmark setups that are prevalent in
the ML community, we show that the relative performance of algorithms may be
altered signiﬁcantly simply by choosing different benchmark tasks, highlighting
the fragility of the current paradigms and potential fallacious interpretation derived
from benchmarking ML methods. Given that every benchmark makes a statement
about what it perceives to be important, we argue that this might lead to biased
progress in the community. We discuss the implications of the observed phenomena
and provide recommendations on mitigating them using multiple machine learning
domains and communities as use cases, including natural language processing,
computer vision, information retrieval, recommender systems, and reinforcement
learning.

Contents

1 Introduction

2 Background

2.1 Life of a benchmark .

.

.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3 Task selection bias

3.1 Case Studies .

.

.

.

.

3.1.1

SuperGLUE .

.

.

.

.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.1.2 Visual Task Adaptation Benchmark (VTAB)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

∗Equal contribution, †equal advising.

2

4

5

6

6

6

7

3.1.3 Long Range Arena .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.1.4 RL Unplugged .

.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.2 Score and rank aggregation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7

8

9

3.3 Human evaluation bias

.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10

4 Community bias

4.1 Example: GLUE benchmark . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5 Benchmarks are stateful

6 Rigging the lottery: making your own luck

6.1 Recommender systems and benchmark inconsistencies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.2 ALE and evaluation setup inconsistencies

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7 What can we do?

7.1

Investing in making guidelines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.2 Statistical signiﬁcance testing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.3 Rise of living benchmarks

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8 Epilogue

9 Appendix

A SuperGLUE: Ranking of models on different combinations of tasks

B SuperGLUE: Rank correlation between SuperGLUE score and individual tasks

C SuperGLUE: Effect on relative ranking of models

D VTAB: Agreement on top-ranked models across sub-categories and tasks

E LRA: Comparing the top-scoring models on all possible task subsets

F Popular public benchmarks for evaluating recommend systems

G Benchmarking checklist for the review process

1

Introduction

10

11

11

13

13

14

14

14

17

18

19

29

29

30

30

31

32

33

34

Quantitative evaluation is a cornerstone of machine learning research. As a result, benchmarks,
including those based on data sets and simulations, have become fundamental to tracking the progress
of machine learning research.

Benchmarks have a long history in artiﬁcial intelligence research generally. There have been several
attempts at designing milestones to capture progress toward artiﬁcial intelligence (e.g., human
level game performance, the Turing test [Turing, 1950]). Speciﬁc system properties are measured
through specialized benchmarks (e.g. for vision, natural language processing, robotics). All of these
benchmarks, by design, encode values about what is salient and important, both across domains (e.g.
natural language processing benchmarks versus robotics benchmarks) and within them (e.g. which

2

languages are considered in an NLP benchmark, which environments are considered in a robotics
benchmark).

As benchmarks become widely accepted, researchers adopt them, often without questioning their
assumptions, and algorithmic development becomes slowly tied to these success metrics. Indeed, over
time, the research community makes collective decisions about what shared tasks–and values–are
important (through peer review norms and resource investment) and which are not.

Because of this, it is important for the research community to understand the individual, community,
social, and political pressures that inﬂuence why some benchmarks become canonical and others
do not. This paper shares some opinions on this topic along with case studies calling for discussion
and reconsiderations on several issues with benchmarking in machine learning and argues that a
meta-level understanding of benchmarks is a prerequisite for understanding how the progress in
machine learning is made.

This paper presents analyses on how benchmarks may affect the direction and pace of progress in
machine learning and puts forward the notion of a benchmark lottery. We argue that many factors
other than the algorithmic superiority of a method may inﬂuence the emergence of algorithms that
are perceived as better. Moreover, we claim that for a method to emerge successful, it has to ﬁrst
win the benchmark lottery. Out of the many potential trials in this lottery, a method has to be ﬁrst
well-aligned with the suite of benchmarks that the community has accepted as canonical. We refer
to the alignment between the tasks brought forth by the community and successful algorithms as
the task selection bias. We empirically show that the task selection process has a great inﬂuence
over the relative performance of different methods. Moreover, we argue that benchmarks are stateful,
meaning that the method has to also participate in the lottery at the right moment, and to align well
with existing techniques, tricks, and state-of-the-art. Related to this, we also brieﬂy discuss how
benchmark reuse may affect the statistical validity of the results of new methods.

As a whole, as we researchers continue to participate in the benchmark lottery, there are long-term
implications, which we believe are important to be explicitly aware of. As such, the main goals of
this paper are to (i) raise awareness of these phenomena and potential issues they create; and to,
(ii) provide some recommendations for mitigating these issues. We argue that community forces and
task selection biases, if left unchecked, may lead to unwarranted overemphasis of certain types of
models and to unfairly hinder the growth of other classes of models - which may be important for
making fast and reliable progress in machine learning.

Additionally, we discuss the trend of consolidating several benchmarks into a meta-benchmark (or
benchmark suite), e.g. GLUE [Wang et al., 2018], XTREME [Hu et al., 2020], VTAB [Zhai et al.,
2019], RL Unplugged [Gulcehre et al., 2020] to name a few. In this context, using the most common
score aggregation technique, i.e., averaging, a model that performs poorly on any of the bundled tasks
may be set up for failure. We argue that the and operator is an inductive bias that favors well-rounded
models as opposed to models that may do really well on one task, making unfair assumptions about
what practitioners might really need or want. Finally, in alignment with the task selection biases, we
show that the selection of a subset of the tasks used in the benchmark suite plays a substantial role in
determining the winning algorithms, providing further evidence that researchers are participating in
the benchmark lottery.

The notion of what makes a benchmark canonical, in the sense that is widely accepted by the
community, is also diverse depending on the ﬁeld of study. On one hand, ﬁelds like natural language
processing (NLP) or computer vision (CV) have well-established benchmarks for certain problems.
On the other hand, ﬁelds such as recommender systems or reinforcement learning tend to allow
researchers more freedom in choosing their own tasks and evaluation criteria for comparing methods.
We show how this may act as rigging the lottery, where researchers can “make their own luck” by
ﬁtting benchmarks and experimental setups to models instead.

Overall, this paper explores these aspects of model evaluation in machine learning research. We
frame this from a new perspective of the benchmark lottery. While there has been recent work that
peers deeply into the benchmark tasks themselves [Bowman and Dahl, 2021], this work takes meta-
and macro-perspectives to encompass factors that go beyond designing reliable standalone tasks.

The remainder of the paper is organized as follow:

3

• Section 2 discusses how benchmarks can inﬂuence long-term research directions in a given

(sub-)ﬁeld, and describes the life cycle of a benchmark.

• Section 3 introduces the task selection bias and using established benchmarks as examples
shows how relative performance of algorithms is affected by the task selection process.
• Section 4 takes another view of the task selection bias and proposes community bias as a
higher-level process that inﬂuences task selection. We show that forces from the broader
research community directly impact the task selection process and as a result, play a
substantial role in creating the lottery.

• Section 5 posits that benchmarks are stateful entities and that participation in a benchmark
differs vastly depending upon its state. We also argue continual re-use of the same benchmark
may be problematic.

• Section 6 discusses rigging the lottery, the issue that some communities (e.g. recommender
systems and reinforcement learning) face, where the lack of well-established community-
driven sets of benchmarks or clear guidelines may inadvertently enable researchers to ﬁt
benchmarks to model. We highlight the potential drawbacks of such an approach.

• Finally, in Section 7 we provide recommendations for ﬁnding a way out of the lottery
by building better benchmarks and rendering more accurate judgments when comparing
models.

Overall, uniﬁed benchmarks have led to incredible progress and breakthroughs in machine learning
and artiﬁcial intelligence research [Kingma and Welling, 2013, Mikolov et al., 2013, Sutskever et al.,
2014, Bahdanau et al., 2014, Goodfellow et al., 2014, Hinton et al., 2015, Silver et al., 2016, He
et al., 2016a, Vaswani et al., 2017, Devlin et al., 2018, Brown et al., 2020, Dosovitskiy et al., 2020].
There is certainly a lot of beneﬁts of having the community come together to solve shared tasks and
benchmarks. Given that the role of benchmarks is indispensable and highly important for measuring
progress, this work seeks to examine, introspect and ﬁnd ways to improve.

2 Background

Measuring progress is one of the most difﬁcult aspects of empirical computer science and machine
learning. Such questions as “What are the best setup and task to use for evaluation?” [Ponce et al.,
2006, Machado et al., 2018, Lin, 2019, Bowman and Dahl, 2021, Recht et al., 2019, Lin et al., 2021,
Gulcehre et al., 2020, Perazzi et al., 2016, Vania et al., 2020, Musgrave et al., 2020], “Which data or
benchmark are most applicable?” [Metzler and Kurland, 2012, Beyer et al., 2020, Northcutt et al.,
2021, Gulcehre et al., 2020, Dacrema et al., 2019], “Which metrics are suitable?” [Machado et al.,
2018, Bouthillier et al., 2021, Balduzzi et al., 2018, Bouthillier et al., 2019, Musgrave et al., 2020],
or “What are the best practices for fair benchmarking?” [Torralba and Efros, 2011, Armstrong et al.,
2009, Machado et al., 2018, Sculley et al., 2018, Lin, 2019, Bowman and Dahl, 2021, Bouthillier
et al., 2021, Recht et al., 2019, Lin et al., 2021, Balduzzi et al., 2018, Lipton and Steinhardt, 2018,
Bouthillier et al., 2019, Vania et al., 2020, Mishra and Arunkumar, 2021, Marie et al., 2021, Dodge
et al., 2019] are of utmost importance to correct empirical evaluation of new ideas and algorithms,
and have been extensively studied. Nevertheless, the jury is still out on most of these questions.

Owing to this complexity at no point in time can the claim of superiority of a certain algorithm or
model on a speciﬁc task be made with full conﬁdence. However, providing any answer to the question
of “Which algorithm is currently the best?” can play a major role in determining the direction of
research and the progress in the ﬁeld in the long run.

We argue that some models and algorithms are not inherently superior to their alternatives, but are
instead perceived as such by the research community due to various factors that we discuss in this
paper. One of these factors is the software and hardware support for an idea, as captured in the concept
of hardware lottery by Hooker [2020]. Here however we focus mainly on benchmarking-related
factors, and discuss the role they play in the selection of a model as “fashionable” in the research
world, and how this is often conﬂated with the model being better. When a class of models or
algorithms gets recognition in the community, there will be more follow up research, adaption to
more setups, more tuning and discovery of better conﬁgurations, which lead to better results. This
is a valid way of propelling the ﬁeld further. However, a question that we should also ask is how
much progress could have been made by investing the same amount of time, effort, computational

4

resources and talent in a different class of models. In other words, assuming model development as a
complex high-dimensional optimization process, in which researchers are exploring a ﬁtness surface,
the initial point, as well as the ﬁtness function, are the key factors for ending up with better optima,
and both these factors are highly affected by the benchmarks used for evaluation.

Before diving into various aspects of the benchmark lottery, we begin by describing the life cycle
of a benchmark and set the stage by describing several widely adopted benchmarks/tasks and their
characteristics.

2.1 Life of a benchmark

A benchmark is often proposed as a means to evaluate relative model quality. However, it can
sometimes also be employed as a diagnostic tool or suite that allows practitioners to peer into the
behavior of their models. This section examines the life cycle of a benchmark.
Inception. A benchmark may be ﬁrst proposed as an example task in its debut paper (implicit), or be
directly framed as a shared task (explicit) where the main contribution may be the dataset itself. A
recent trend is also for a leaderboard or competition website to be set up to allow submissions from
the community. An example of the former is the Stanford Sentiment Treebank (SST) dataset, which
was proposed as part of a methods paper [Socher et al., 2013]. Conversely, examples of an explicit
shared task are benchmarks like SQuAD [Rajpurkar et al., 2016], GLUE [Wang et al., 2018, 2019] or
XTREME [Hu et al., 2020].
Gaining traction or ﬁzzling out. certain benchmarks may gain traction at an early stage, encouraging
a large number of submissions or publications that evaluate their ideas against them. Benchmarks
that are gamiﬁed with leaderboards [Rajpurkar et al., 2016, Bowman et al., 2015, Hu et al., 2020,
Wang et al., 2019, 2018] tend to be of this nature, encouraging dataset creators to always setup
these competition scenarios. Similar to how posts become viral on social media, early tractions and
citations on benchmark are likely to inﬂuence future adoption. That said, benchmarks may also
ﬁzzle out due to one or many issues. Oversaturation on a certain domain is of the leading factors,
along with usage difﬁculties (such as having evaluation metrics or setups that may be inconvenient or
tedious, etc). On the ﬂip side, benchmarks can suddenly gain traction if a highly inﬂuential method
paper uses them in its experiments. As an example, the subject-verb agreement task [Linzen et al.,
2016] became more popular, when it started being used for showcasing the ability of recurrent neural
networks over Transformers on modeling hierarchical structure [Tran et al., 2018, Dehghani et al.,
2019, Abnar et al., 2020].
Active and in-progress. This stage may take a long time depending on how much progress is being
made on the proposed task. An active task will typically have a large number of submissions and
publications attempting to make improvements on the task. Progress may be optimistic and the
bar for improvement is usually higher at this stage. A Stage 3 benchmark may even be considered
“hot” where any progress or state-of-the-art result is poised to generate a lot of interest and publicity.
An example of such a benchmark is the Long Range Arena benchmark [Tay et al., 2020b], whose
usage continues to increase leading to the emergence of new ideas for improving the efﬁciency of
Transformer models on long sequences.
Maturity, degeneration or deprecation. A benchmark may reach its maturity if the community
considers the task to be solved, or if meaningful progress on the task can no longer be made
(degeneration). This can happen once human parity is achieved (e.g. SQuAD). Eventually, the
community largely stops paying attention to the task, and what is left is researchers optimizing for the
last 0.01% percentage improvement. An example of continued hill-climbing on a mature benchmark
can be found at the SQuAD leaderboard2.
Renewal. Once a benchmark degenerates or reaches full maturity, it is not uncommon for the original
authors (or an independent set of authors) to propose new variations or extensions of the benchmark.
This might be to resolve issues with the existing version, or simply to improve the challenge, difﬁculty,
or other aspects of the benchmark. We saw this evolution when SQuAD benchmark graduated to
V2 [Rajpurkar et al., 2018], or when the SNLI [Bowman et al., 2015] benchmark slowly evolved into
MultiNLI [Williams et al., 2017]. Another example is the of ImageNet-A and O [Hendrycks et al.,
2021], ImageNet-C [Hendrycks and Dietterich, 2019], and ImageNet-R [Hendrycks et al., 2020] for
evaluating robustness of algorithms. As a more known example, QMNIST [Yadav and Bottou, 2019]
is proposed as a larger and more accurate dataset as a replacement for the MNIST dataset.

2https://rajpurkar.github.io/SQuAD-explorer/

5

Figure 1: Disagreement of model rankings on the SuperGLUE benchmark as a function of the number
of selected benchmark tasks. The x-axis represents the number of tasks in each sub-selection of tasks
and each line corresponds to a different value of k for the Top-k in the rankings. Points are labels as
A/B, where A is the number of unique model rankings and B is the total number of possible task
combinations for this subset size. If A = 1, then all rankings are equivalent and consistent across all
task selections; higher values of A correspond to higher degrees of disagreement between models
rankings.

3 Task selection bias

As we show in this section, relative model performance is highly sensitive to the choice of tasks and
datasets it is measured on. As a result, the selection of well-established benchmarks plays a more
important role than is perhaps acknowledged, and constitutes a form of partiality and bias - the task
selection bias.

3.1 Case Studies

In this section, we study four different popular benchmarks or natural language processing, computer
vision, efﬁcient sequence modeling, and ofﬂine reinforcement learning and use the data from the
leaderboards of these benchmarks and run analyses to highlight the effect of task selection bias.

3.1.1 SuperGLUE

In order to study the effect of aggregated scores and how ﬁndings change by emphasizing and
de-emphasizing certain tasks, we explore the SuperGLUE dataset [Wang et al., 2019]. To demonstrate
the task selection bias on this benchmark, we re-compute the aggregated scores using different
combinations of eight SuperGLUE tasks.
Model Runs. We consider over 55 different top performing models that are studied in [Narang et al.,
2021], including transformer-based models with various activation functions, normalization and
parameter initialization schemes, and also architectural extensions (e.g., Evolved Transformers [So
et al., 2019], Synthesizers [Tay et al., 2020a], Universal Transformer [Dehghani et al., 2019], and
Switch Transformers [Fedus et al., 2021]) as well as convolution-based models (e.g. lightweight
and dynamic convolutions). We consider the ﬁne-grained scores of these models on the 8 individual
tasks of SuperGLUE and their different combinations. For each combination of tasks, we take a
mean-aggregate model performance for all models on the selected tasks and produce a ranking of
all 55 models. To make this ranking more meaningful, we only consider its Top-k entries, where
k ∈ {1, 3, 5, 10}.
Ranking inconsistency. Figure 1 gives a concise overview of the number of unique Top-k rankings
produced obtained from ﬁxed-size subsets of tasks. For example among the 70 different possibilities
of selecting 4 out of 8 tasks, there are 6 distinct model ranking orders produced for Top-1 (i.e. there
are 6 different possible top models). Moreover, when considering Top-3 or even Top-5, almost 60
out of 70 rankings do not agree with each other. Overall, the rankings become highly diverse as the
subset of tasks selected from the benchmark is varied. This forms the core of the empirical evidence

6

of the task selection bias. More analyses on ranking of models on all possible combinations of tasks,
rank correlation between SuperGLUE score and individual tasks, effect of relative raking of models
in Appendix A,B, and C.

3.1.2 Visual Task Adaptation Benchmark (VTAB)

A similar situation can be observed for the Visual Task Adaptation Benchmark (VTAB; [Zhai et al.,
2019]) benchmark. VTAB is used for evaluating the quality of representations learned by different
models in terms of their ability to adapt to diverse, unseen tasks with few examples. In addition to
standard natural image tasks, like classiﬁcation on ImageNet or CIFAR datasets, VTAB includes tasks
that are related to sensorimotor control, medical imaging, and scene understanding. The benchmark
deﬁnes the score of an algorithm as its expected performance over a known distribution of tasks that
includes those that a human can solve, from visual input alone.

VTAB deﬁnes a total of 19 tasks, grouped into three categories: (i) Natural, which contains natural
images captured using standard cameras that represent generic, ﬁne-grained, or abstract objects
[Caltech101[Fei-Fei et al., 2006], CIFAR100 [Krizhevsky et al., 2009], DTD [Cimpoi et al., 2014],
Flowers102 [Nilsback and Zisserman, 2008], Pets [Parkhi et al., 2012], Sun397 [Xiao et al., 2010],
and SVHN [Netzer et al., 2011].]; (ii) Specialized, which contains images of the world that captured
through specialist equipment [Remote sensing: Resisc45 [Cheng et al., 2017] and EuroSAT [Helber
et al., 2019]: aerial images of the Earth captured using satellites or aerial photography; Medical:
Patch Camelyon [Veeling et al., 2018], metastases detection from microscopy images, and Diabetic
Retinopathy [Kaggle and EyePacs, 2015], retinopathy classiﬁcation from fundus images.]; and ﬁnally
(iii) Structured, which contains tasks that designed to assess comprehension of the structure of a scene,
mostly generated syntactically using simulated environments [CLEVR [Johnson et al., 2017]: Simple
shapes rendered in a 3D scene, with two tasks: counting and depth prediction, dSprites [Higgins
et al., 2016]: Simple black-and-white shapes rendered in 2D, with two tasks: location and orientation
prediction, SmallNORB [LeCun et al., 2004]: Artiﬁcial objects viewed under varying conditions, with
two tasks: object azimuth and camera-elevation prediction, DMLab [Beattie et al., 2016]: Frames
from a rendered 3D maze. The task involves predicting the time for a pre-trained RL agent to
navigate to an object, KITTI [Geiger et al., 2013]: frames captured from a car driver’s perspective
and the task is to predict the depth of the nearest vehicle.]. We have evaluated 32 different models
against all the 19 VTAB tasks. The difference between models is on their architectures (e.g. WAE-
GAN [Tolstikhin et al., 2017] vs. VIVI[Tschannen et al., 2020]), their sizes (e.g. ResNet-50 vs.
ResNet-101 [Kolesnikov et al., 2019]), or the dataset they were pre-trained on (e.g. ResNet-50
pretrained on ImageNet-21k vs. ResNet-50 pretrained on JFT [Kolesnikov et al., 2019]). Models we
considered in our study are those that are introduced as “representation learning algorithms” in [Zhai
et al., 2019].

First, we study the agreement of the aggregated score across all 19 tasks with the aggregated scores
obtained from different combinations of the three task categories: natural (NA), specialized (SP),
and structured (ST). Figure 2a shows the Kendall rank correlation, when ranking different models
based on the full VTAB score and based on the category (combination) score. It can be seen that
rankings of models based on different combinations of categories are not always perfectly correlated.
For instance, the structured (ST) subcategory has a correlation of ≈ 0.7 with the full VTAB score,
thus highlighting rather different aspects of the competing models. A more striking point is the full
disagreement of different subcategories on the winning model, i.e. top-1 that is shown in Appendix D,
where we future present the results that show disagreement in the top-1, 2, and 3 rank positions based
on different combinations of sub-categories and tasks. This shows that crowning a model as the
winner based on a single score can be suboptimal, and demonstrates how the random nature of task
selection can become a lottery that algorithms need to win.

Figure 2b also presents the correlations between the rankings based on the individual tasks and the
aggregated VTAB score. Unsurprisingly, an even stronger disagreement between rankings is observed
(mean Kendall correlation of ≈ 0.60), including tasks with negative correlation.

3.1.3 Long Range Arena

The Long Range Arena (LRA; Tay et al. [2020b]) is a benchmark designed for aggregated evaluation
of long-range Transformer models [Tay et al., 2020c]. Similar to other benchmark suites, LRA
consists of six tasks: ListOps, Long Text Classiﬁcation, Long Text Retrieval, Pixel-wise Image

7

(a) Different categories.

(b) Different task.

Figure 2: Rank correlation between the full VTAB score and the score for subsets of the benchmark.

Table 1: Top-3 best performing models on the LRA for three cases: the full LRA score, individual
tasks and leave-one-out scores. Results on all the possible combinations along with complete model
names are reported in Table 3 in the Appendix E.

Task
LRA Score
t1 (Text only)
t2 (Retrieval only)
t3 (ListOps only)
t4 (Image only)
t5 (Path only)
t1 + t2 + t3 + t4
t1 + t3 + t4 + t5
t1 + t2 + t4 + t5
t2 + t3 + t4 + t5

Best Model Rank-2 Rank-3

B
L
S
R
S
P
T
B
S
B

T
P
B
Z
P
L
B
T
P
T

L
T
L
T
T
L
L
L
B
L

Classiﬁcation, and two variants of spatial reasoning based on the path-ﬁnder task. The authors rank
eleven efﬁcient transformer models by aggregating performance across all six tasks. To demonstrate
that here too task selection matters, we computed Top-3 rankings of models for each task combination
displayed in Table 1. Model name abbreviations are used for brevity and because the actual model
names are not important for the purpose of this analysis. Notably, it is easy to see that the identity of
each of the top-3 changes frequently as the subset of evaluation tasks is changed.

3.1.4 RL Unplugged

(a) Atari 2600

(b) DM Control Suite

Figure 3: Rank correlation between the aggregated score and scores from each individual dataset.
Note that the common approach in the literature to ingrate scores is “median human normalized
performance” for Atari and “mean” for DM controls.

8

RL Unplugged [Gulcehre et al., 2020] is a suite of benchmarks for ofﬂine reinforcement learning,
where the task for the agent is to learn a policy directly from some logged data that is produced
by a system as part of its normal operation, without interacting with the environment at the time
of learning. In reinforcement learning, in general, it has been shown that varying random seeds
alone can lead to a high variance between runs [Henderson et al., 2018], and this seed lottery is
introducing difﬁculty in comparing different methods and making conclusions. Here, we study ofﬂine
RL, where the results are more stable for the sake of focusing a bit more on the task selection bias
problem. We will discuss online RL and expand on some other aspects in the context of Section 6.2.
RL Unplugged introduces a collection of task domains and associated datasets together with a clear
evaluation protocol. It includes some widely used domains such as the DM Control Suite [Tassa
et al., 2018] and Atari 2600 games [Bellemare et al., 2013], as well as Real-World RL (RWRL)
tasks [Dulac-Arnold et al., 2019] and DM Locomotion tasks [Heess et al., 2017].

Here, we study the aggregated scores over multiple tasks in Atari 2600 and DM Control from RL-
Unplugged. Atari 2600 consists of 46 Atari games, and DM Control has 9 difﬁdent tasks. We use the
performance of 7 differed baselines3 in our analysis.

Figure 3a presents the Kendall rank correlation when ranking different models based on their human
normalized performance on each task vs the median human normalized performance across all tasks.
We also show the correlation between median and mean human normalized performance on Atari.
Although many papers reported mean performance on Atari as the aggregated score, it is becoming
a standard to report median since the mean is potentially less informative, as it is dominated by a
few games (e.g. Atlantis) where agents achieve scores orders of magnitude higher than humans do.
Figure 3b also shows the Kendall rank correlation of the mean performance across all tasks with
performance on each task as well as the median. First of all, in both cases, it can be seen that the
ranking of models based on individual tasks can widely disagree the ranking from the aggregated
score (average rank correlation in Figure 3a is ≈ 0.49 and in Figure 3b is ≈ 0.54), indicating how
solely reporting the aggregated score can send a potentially wrong signal for choosing the best model.
Moreover, the aggregation strategies, i.e. mean and median in this case do not agree which shows
standardizing one over another with the intention of considering only one of them comes at the cost
of losing some information.

3.2 Score and rank aggregation

So far, we highlighted the issue with reporting a single aggregated score that is supposed to reﬂect
the performance on multiple tasks, by showcasing the disagreement between different subsets of
tasks. One of the main difﬁculties for aggregating scores of multiple tasks is the lack of a clear
mechanism for incorporating the difﬁculty of tasks into account. This is made more complex by the
fact that there are multiple facets to what makes a task difﬁcult. For instance, the size of the training
data for different tasks, the number of prediction classes (and consequently the score for a random
baseline for the task), distribution shift between the pretraining dataset and the downstream tasks,
different performance ranges across tasks, or overrepresenting particular aspects by multiple tasks
that introduces biases into averages [Balduzzi et al., 2018]. As a concrete example, in the case of
VTAB some tasks use the same input data thus upweighting those domains, e.g. CLEVR-Count and
CLEVR-Dist use the same data for different tasks, and for this particular example, given the negative
correlation between CLEVR-Dist and the mean score, this upweighting effect makes the aggregated
score even noisier.

To address some of these issues, there are alternative ways for ranking models instead of using
the mean score across all tasks as the model performance on the benchmark. For instance, One
can grouping tasks based on their domain) and use macro-averaging to account for the effect
upweighting some domains [Zhai et al., 2019]. Given that using simple averaging for aggregation
across multiple tasks, the maximum score is bounded, this may limit the range of performances,
implicitly upweighting tasks with more headroom. To address this issue, one can use geometric
mean instead of arithmetic mean. There are also solutions for rank aggregation that ignore absolute
score differences in favor of relative ordering [Dwork et al., 2001, Tabrizi et al., 2015]: For instance,
the “average rank” that is obtained by ranking the methods for each task based on their score and
then computing the average ranks across tasks. Another alternatives are, for instance, robust average

3For our analysis we used the data from the ancillary ﬁles of [Schrittwieser et al., 2021], which can be found

in https://arxiv.org/src/2104.06294v1/anc.

9

rank, where, before averaging ranks across tasks, the accuracy is binned into buckets of size 1% and
all methods in the same bucket get the same rank or elimination ranking (which is equivalent to an
exhaustive ballot voting system) [Hao and Ryan, 2016].

3.3 Human evaluation bias

Related to the task selection bias we discussed in this section, human evaluation bias within a task can
also play a role in model selection in some tasks like natural language generation. Lack of consistency
in how human evaluation, e.g. due to different levels of expertise, cognitive biases, or even inherent
ambiguity in the annotation task can introduce a large variability in model comparisons [Schoch
et al., 2020]. In the context of measuring the reliability in human annotation, it has been shown that
selecting a subset of annotators for evaluation may change the performance of models [Van Der Lee
et al., 2019, Amidei et al., 2018, Schoch et al., 2020, Amidei et al., 2020], which can be framed as
“annotation bias” that also contribute to the benchmark lottery.

4 Community bias

Even when viewed as a random process, the task selection bias described in Section 3 alone is
sufﬁcient for creating arbitrary selection pressures for machine learning models. We argue however
that there is also a higher-level process in which the broader research community inﬂuences the task
selection, and that counterintuitively leads to the lottery forces not being diminished, but instead
more pronounced. This section takes a people perspective of the benchmark lottery and postulates
that it is not only the “gamemasters” (benchmark proposers) but also the community that contribute
to and reinforce it.

While researchers technically have the freedom to select any dataset to showcase their method, this
choice is often moderated by the community. In short, the community determines which benchmarks
are acceptable for measuring progress on particular problems. This process is implicit and not directly
observable, as there are no hard rules on permissible benchmarks or tasks.

A common feedback in the review process of scientiﬁc publications that any ML researcher will face
eventually is a criticism of the choice of benchmark. For example “the method was not evaluated on
X or Y dataset” or “the method’s performance is not SOTA on dataset Z”. Over time, ML researchers
tend to gravitate to safe choices of tasks and benchmarks. For example, most papers proposing
new pretrained language models [Lan et al., 2019, Liu et al., 2019, Clark et al., 2020, Yang et al.,
2020] evaluate on GLUE even if alternatives exist (see example below for further substantiation). In
other words, the selection of tasks commonly used in publication is largely driven by the community.
Moreover, whether a benchmark is selected as the canonical testbed or not, is not necessarily governed
by the quality of the test examples, metrics, evaluation paradigm, or even what the benchmark truly
measures.

In fact, an argument that the community is solely responsible for the task selection bias is not without
merit, since the community is the ﬁnal endorser and enforcer of these circumstances. There can be
no task selection bias if there is no one to act upon it. To this end, the community might ‘double
down’ on a benchmark where it becomes almost an unspoken rule for one to evaluate on a particular
benchmark. Once a benchmark builds up a following and becomes well-established, it is not hard to
imagine that reviewers would ask for results on these benchmarks, potentially regardless of suitability
and/or appropriateness. This makes it difﬁcult to ﬁx potentially broken benchmarks.

As foreshadowed, commonly used benchmarks are not immune to containing errors. While these
errors are likely to be small (as otherwise they would presumably be noticed early on), they do
matter in close calls between competing methods. Northcutt et al. [2021] identiﬁed label errors in
test sets of 10 of the most commonly-used computer vision, natural language, and audio datasets;
for example, there are label errors in 6% of the examples in the ImageNet validation set. They
showed that correcting label errors in these benchmarks changes model ranking, especially for
models that had similar performance. In the ﬁeld of NLP, it was later found in SNLI [Bowman
et al., 2015], which is a dataset for natural language inference (NLI), a large amount of annotation
artifacts exists, and it is possible to simply infer the correct label by only using the premise and not
the hypothesis [Gururangan et al., 2018]. It is worth noting that SNLI, being the canonical benchmark
for NLI, was easily perceived as mandatory for almost any NLI based research.

10

The possibility of having such an issue is not only restricted to the peer review process, but it may
extend to the public perception of papers after they are published regardless of whether they went
through the peer review process or not. The community bias problem can be raised as the community
collectively assigning a weighted impact score for doing well on arbitrarily selected tasks. Achieving
state of the art on task Y is then deemed signiﬁcantly less meaningful than doing that for task X.
Moreover, this is not necessarily done without any explicit reasoning as to why one task is preferred
to the other, or even how such a“decision” was made.

The main concern with respect to the community bias is that research is becoming too incremental
and biased toward the common expectations, since a completely new approach will initially have a
hard time competing against established and carefully ﬁne-tuned models.

4.1 Example: GLUE benchmark

The GLUE benchmark was pitched as a general language understanding benchmark and is an
aggregation of 8 datasets that have been previously proposed [Williams et al., 2017]. We use this
as an example of a community bias. To this date, the majority of pretrained LM paper evaluates
on the GLUE benchmark. This includes widely recognized and cited papers such as BERT [Devlin
et al., 2018], ALBERT [Lan et al., 2019], RoBERTa [Liu et al., 2019], XLNet [Yang et al., 2020],
ELECTRA, and many others.4. Given the popularity of GLUE for evaluating these models, it is only
imperative that newly proposed models have to shine on GLUE in order to increase their likelihood
of acceptance (in the literal sense or by the community).

Here, it is good to note that seven out of eight tasks in GLUE are actually matching tasks that
require modeling the relationship between two or more sequences. While it is still unclear how
much this problem formulation has to do with natural language understanding, it is clear that this
problem formulation favors a certain class of models (e.g., Transformers which has this baked-in
cross attention in the encoder). It is easy to see that this conﬂates an actual advantage in problem
formulation (and input setting) with the ability of an encoder model to learn textual representations.
While one may argue that a method should reap rewards even for a problem formulation advantage, it
is also good to note that many of these cross attention setups are infeasible in practice at scale [Guo
et al., 2019, Seo et al., 2018]. It is also interesting that, if the tasks in GLUE were swapped for other
equally plausible and practical tasks, we might encourage the development of alternative architectures
such as pretrained ConvNets in NLP [Tay et al., 2021].

5 Benchmarks are stateful

With leaderboards and the continuous publication of new methods, it is clear that benchmarks are
stateful entities. At any point in time, the attempt of a new idea for beating a particular benchmark
depends on the information gathered from previous submissions and publications. This is a natural
way of making progress on a given problem. But when viewed from the perspective of the selective
pressures it causes, it creates another kind of lottery.

For many machine learning benchmarks, researchers have full access to the holdout set. Although
not explicitly, this typically leads to the violation of the most basic datum of “one should not train
on test/holdout set” by getting inspiration from already published works by others who presumably
report only the best of the numerous models they evaluated on the test set.

Beyond that, it is common to copy-paste hyper-parameters, use the same code, and more recently to
even start from pre-retrained checkpoints of previous successful models 5. In such setups, where the
discovery of new models is built on top of thousands of queries, direct or indirect, to the test set, the
error rate on test data does not necessarily reﬂect the true population error [Arora and Zhang, 2021,
Blum and Hardt, 2015, Dwork et al., 2015]. The adaptive data analysis framework [Dwork et al.,

4We have manually checked the papers presented ideas to improve pretrained LMs with more than 500

citations that and in all these papers GLUE has been used for evaluation.

5This is in particular common when a paper provides results based on large scale experiments that are not
necessarily feasible to redo for many researchers. For instance, the majority of the papers that propose follow up
ideas to Vision Transformer [Dosovitskiy et al., 2020] start by initializing weights from the released pretrained
models and follow the setups of the original paper. Similarly, several NLP papers use BERT pretrained models
and the same hyper-parameters as BERT in their experimental setup.

11

2015] provides evaluation mechanisms with guaranteed upper bounds on the difference between
average error on the test examples and the expected error on the full distribution (population error
rates). Based on this framework, if the test set has size N , and the designer of a new model can see
the error of the ﬁrst i − 1 models on the test set before designing the i-th model, one can ensure the
accuracy of the i-th model on the test set is as high as Ω((cid:112)i/N ) by using the boosting attack [Blum
and Hardt, 2015]. In other words, Dwork et al. [2015] state that once we have i (cid:29) N the results
on the test set are no longer an indication of model quality. It has been argued that what matters is
not only the number of times that a test set has been accessed as stated by adaptive data analysis,
but also how it is accessed. Some empirical studies on some popular datasets [Recht et al., 2018,
Yadav and Bottou, 2019, Recht et al., 2019] demonstrated that overﬁtting to holdout data is less of
a concern than reasoning from what has been suggested in [Blum and Hardt, 2015]. Roelofs et al.
[2019] also studied the holdout reuse by analyzing data from machine learning competitions on
the Kaggle and show no signiﬁcant adaptive overﬁtting on the classiﬁcation competitions. Other
studies showed that additional factors may prevent adaptive overﬁtting to happen in practice. For
instance, [Feldman et al., 2019b,a] show that in multi-class classiﬁcation, the large number of classes
makes it substantially harder to overﬁt due to test set reuse. In a recent study, Arora and Zhang
[2021] argue that empirical studies that are based on creating or using new test sets (e.g. [Recht et al.,
2018, Yadav and Bottou, 2019, Recht et al., 2019]), although reassuring in some level, are not always
possible especially in datasets concerning rare or one-time phenomena. They emphasize the need
for computing an effective upper bound for the difference between the test and population errors.
They propose an upper bound using the description length of models that is based on the knowledge
available to model designers before and after the creation of a test set.

All these studies considered, we can conclude that prior information about a model’s performance on
the test set may inﬂuence future modeling choices and hyperparameter settings, and this adaptive
behavior, in principle, may have an effect on generalization and can, to different extents, create a
gap between test error and full distribution error. Thus, when using a benchmark, we should also
think about and clarify answers to several related questions: Do improvements on the benchmark
correspond to progress on the original problem? How does the number of times, and the way the test
(or holdout) set of this benchmark has been accessed relates to the statistical validity of the results
reported on it? How far will we get by gaming the benchmark rather than making progress towards
solving the original problem?

From the benchmark lottery point of view, the most important aspect of the above phenomena is
that the development of new models is shaped by the knowledge of the test errors of all models
before it. First of all, there had been events in the past where accessing the test set more than others,
intentionally, secured a margin for victory in the race 6. In other words, having the ability to access
the test set more than others can be interpreted as buying more lottery tickets. Besides, even when
there is no explicit intention, the tempting short-term rewards of incremental research polarize people
and reinforce the echo chamber effect - leading models are quickly adapted by re-using their code,
pre-trained weights, and hyper-parameters are re-used to build something on top of them even faster.
Unfortunately, this process makes no time for considering how it affects the statistical validity of
results reported on the benchmark.

Another aspect of benchmarks being stateful is that participating in shared tasks at a later stage is
vastly different from the time of its inception. By then the landscape of research with respect to
the speciﬁc benchmark is ﬁlled with tricks, complicated and specialized strategies, and know-how
for obtaining top performance on the task. The adapted recipes for scoring high are not necessarily
universal and may be applicable only to a single narrow task or setup. For example, a publication
might discover that a niche twist to the loss function produces substantially better results on the task.
It is common for all papers subsequently to follow suit. As an example, the community realized that
pre-training on MNLI is necessary for obtaining strong performance on RTE and STS datasets [Liu
et al., 2019, Clark et al., 2020], and this became common practice later on. Experience shows that it
is not uncommon for benchmark tasks to accumulate lists of best practices and tricks that are dataset-
and task-speciﬁc 7. Whether a novel algorithm is able to make use of these tricks (or whether they are

6https://image-net.org/challenges/LSVRC/announcement-June-2-2015
7As an example, for achieving scores that are comparable to top-ranked models on the GLUE benchmark,
there are a series of extremely speciﬁc actions and setups used in pretraining/ﬁnetuning that are known as
“standard GLUE tricks” introduced/used by submissions to the leaderboard [Liu et al., 2019, Yang et al., 2019,
Lan et al., 2019]. Check the Pre-training and ﬁne-tuning details in the appendix of [Clark et al., 2020].

12

available at all) is again a form of lottery, in which models that cannot incorporate any of the earlier
tricks are signiﬁcantly disadvantaged.

6 Rigging the lottery: making your own luck

For some tasks and problems, there are already standard benchmarks and established setups that are
followed by most of the community. However, for some others, inconsistencies in the employed
benchmarks or reported metrics can be observed. This diversity of evaluation paradigms makes
comparisons between publications extremely difﬁcult. Alternatively, in some cases, there is simply
no standard benchmark or setup, either because the problem is still young, or because there has never
been an effort to unify the evaluation. Sometimes this is due to the high computational cost of proper
evaluation, like when reporting variance over multiple random seeds is important [Bouthillier et al.,
2019]. While in other instances, the root cause is of behavioral nature, where researchers prefer
to showcase only what their method shines at - oftentimes to avoid negative reviews, unsuccessful
experiments, although performed, are simply not reported. Here, we study two known examples of
this issue, which we refer to as rigging the lottery.

6.1 Recommender systems and benchmark inconsistencies

The goal of recommender systems (RecSys) research is to build systems that understand users’
interests and behaviors towards a list of potential items to recommend. Deep learning-based recom-
mender systems are trained on large quantities of implicit user feedback, such as users clicking on or
otherwise interacting with items [Zhang et al., 2019].

Unlike the ﬁelds of NLP or CV, there are no well-established evaluation setups for recommender
systems that provide canonical ranked lists of model performance. While there has been a famous
Netﬂix prize challenge8, this dataset has not been extensively used in academic research or for
benchmarking new models. Moreover, even popular datasets like MovieLens [Harper and Konstan,
2015] or Amazon Reviews [He and McAuley, 2016] generally do not have a canonical test split,
metric or evaluation method. Therefore, it is still quite unclear about which modern RecSys method
one should adopt, as model comparisons are difﬁcult to interpret [Dacrema et al., 2019].

Furthermore, RecSys evaluation is also very challenging for a number of reasons. (i) Different
recommendation platforms tackle slightly different problems (e.g retrieval [Yi et al., 2019], ranking
([Pei et al., 2019]), or multitask learning ([Zhao et al., 2019])), and each requires their own evaluation
setup. (ii) As is common for user interacting systems, user’s reaction towards different algorithms
can be different. Constructing ofﬂine datasets of user behaviors from an existing system creates
an off-policy evaluating challenge [Swaminathan et al., 2016]. (iii) A real-world recommendation
system trains on billions of users and items, the scale of user-item interactions makes it extremely
difﬁcult to create a complete dataset containing all possible user-item interactions [He et al., 2016b].
As a result, evaluation setups in many recommender system papers tend to be arbitrary.

There exists a small number of public datasets (see Appendix F), such as MovieLens [Harper and
Konstan, 2015] or Amazon Product Review [He and McAuley, 2016] that are commonly used for
evaluating recommender systems. However, even these datasets are tweaked differently in various
publications, leading sometimes to contradictory results [Rendle et al., 2020, Zheng et al., 2019].
For example, some papers use Hit Ratio and NDCG as evaluation metrics [He et al., 2017], while
others resort to using Recall@K [Zheng et al., 2019]. Interestingly, in this particular example, the
same methods reverse their performance when a different metric is used. Holdout test sets can also be
created differently, with some papers for example using random split [Beutel et al., 2017] and others
using an out-of-time split [Zhang et al., 2020].

While the majority of this paper discusses cases where a standardized benchmark may lead to biased
progress in the ML community, here we instead discuss the exact opposite - implications of having
no consensus datasets or evaluation setups. Having no uniﬁed benchmark for the community to make
progress on has numerous ﬂaws. To name a few, (i) this hinders progress in the ﬁeld, while possibly
(ii) creating an illusion of progress. It is not surprising that under these circumstances researchers
(potentially unknowingly) tend to ﬁnd good experimental setups that ﬁt their models instead of the
other way around.

8https://netflixprize.com/index.html

13

6.2 ALE and evaluation setup inconsistencies

An example of a benchmark that hundreds of papers have used as a testbed, while simultaneously em-
ploying a number of distinct experimental evaluation protocols is the Arcade Learning Environment
(ALE) which is based on Atari 2600 games [Mnih et al., 2013]. The main aspects in which evaluation
setups in different papers using ALE diverge are different metrics used for summarizing agent perfor-
mance, and the different mechanisms used for injecting stochasticity in the environment [Machado
et al., 2018].

For example, different assumptions can be made for determining episode termination. While in some
publications episodes terminate when the game is over [Bellemare et al., 2013, Hausknecht et al.,
2014, Liang et al., 2015, Lipovetzky et al., 2015, Martin et al., 2017], while others papers choose
to terminate the training episodes for a subset of the games when the agent loses a life [Mnih et al.,
2016, Nair et al., 2015, Wang et al., 2016, Van Hasselt et al., 2016].

Another major disagreement in evaluation strategies for ALE, also comes from using different
parameters used for the evaluation setup. For example, some papers use a non-default value for the
skipframe parameter9 in their baseline models [Mnih et al., 2015]. Alternatively in some publication,
methods are evaluated for each 2 × 105 frames [Pritzel et al., 2017], while in others methods are
evaluated every 106 frames [Mnih et al., 2013, 2016]. Another observation is the difference between
the number of games used in the evaluation setups. For instance, Mnih et al. [2015] use 49 games,
while Van Hasselt et al. [2016], Wang et al. [2016] use 57. Moreover, for the hyper-parameter tuning,
sometimes papers use the entire suite of games as the validation set [Bellemare et al., 2013], while in
other cases hyperparameters are optimized on a per-game basis [Jaderberg et al., 2016].

Yet another inconsistency is in reporting the results in terms of the variety of different summary
statistics used to describe them, which makes direct comparisons between ideas difﬁcult [Machado
et al., 2018]. To make matters worse sometimes sufﬁcient statistics to make a judgment on the quality
of the models are not provided. As an example, in [Bellemare et al., 2013], the main results are
reported as the average performance of the method as well as the best run without mentioning the
variance or the standard error of the mean. This is particularly problematic for reinforcement learning,
where it has been shown that often the variance between runs can be so large as to create statistically
different distributions just by varying random seeds [Henderson et al., 2018].

The ﬁnal contentious aspect of ALE that we highlight is the way that various publications choose
to inject stochasticity into the environment. ALE is fully deterministic, thus it is possible to get
good scores by simply memorizing the “right” action sequence, rather than learning to make good
decisions in a variety of game scenarios (i.e. learning an open-loop policy). With this in mind, to
encourage and evaluate agent robustness, various ideas were developed to add forms of stochasticity
to ALE [Bellemare et al., 2013]. Unfortunately, these methods are not necessarily consistent with
each other.

7 What can we do?

While the previous sections of the paper focused on the challenges that arise from the lottery-like in-
teraction between ML benchmarks and the research community, here we would like to show that there
are reasons to be optimistic about future developments in this regard. We present suggestions for im-
proving the idea benchmarking process in ways that make it less of a lottery. These recommendations
can be also framed as checklists10 for different parts of the process, like making benchmarks, using
benchmarks, evaluation of a new ideas. Appendix G presents a proposed benchmarking checklist for
the review process.

7.1

Investing in making guidelines

Assessing the quality of ML algorithms is a complex task, not the least due to the diversity of aspects
and contexts in which algorithms are compared (e.g. based on performance, theoretical computational

9When predicting the action given the state, it is often done for every k-th frame, where k is the skipframe

hyper-parameter.

10Similar to the reproducibility checklist https://www.cs.mcgill.ca/~jpineau/ReproducibilityC

hecklist.pdf [Dodge et al., 2019]

14

efﬁciency, efﬁciency on speciﬁc hardware, fairness w.r.t. selected attributes, etc). This adds an extra
dimension of complexity to the already difﬁcult task of setting up a benchmark.

Given the pitfalls discussed in this paper, it is not impossible to imagine a benchmark being set up
that inadvertently misrepresents the progress and causes an ill-fated shift in research questions and
priorities for (a part of) the research community. The risks of this happening can be minimized by
standardizing the recipe for creating new benchmarks. We believe that the development of shared
standards and guidelines for future benchmarks can be the ﬁrst step towards solving the “rigging the
lottery” problem described in Section 6. We discuss such guidelines in the remainder of this section.
Benchmark building blocks. The ultimate goal of a benchmark is to provide an opportunity to learn
more about a speciﬁc problem, which is achieved by quantifying progress made on that problem. So
the problem or the task itself has a central role when designing a new benchmark. Underinvestment
in a clear deﬁnition of the problem can offset the outcome of the comparisons, while having a clear
set of objectives can assist in identifying the right datasets and usage guidelines for the benchmark.

Datasets form the core of the benchmark, and great care should be taken to collect or select data for
the benchmark that appropriately captures the problem of interest, has the “right” dataset size, and
faithfully captures the distribution of the larger population.

Finally, quantiﬁable progress necessitates the use of shared metrics, which similarly are an essential
part of a benchmark. Their choice requires great care, as at the end of the day, metrics reﬂect the
progress and dictate future research directions.

The gola, datasets, and metrics form the essential building blocks of a benchmark (suite), when
chosen without deliberation, can respectively feed into the community (Section 4) and task selection
biases (Section 3) and rigging the lottery (Section 6) behaviours.
Guidelines for creating benchmarks. Given this, we believe that investing more into shared
guidelines for creating new benchmarks can be extremely beneﬁcial to the long-term health of the
research community. In our view, such guidelines should include the current best practices and
aspects that require special attention; and should highlight potential concerns for issues that may
emerge in the future when different models and algorithms are applied to the benchmarks.

Fortunately, there have been some efforts in providing guidelines and best practices for making new
benchmarks. For example, Zhang [2021] discusses the need for how robotic warehouse picking
benchmarks should be designed to assess the ability of robots in terms of their out of the box
performance (i.e. their success rate the ﬁrst time a new item or unknown scene is encountered),
learning speed (i.e. the time required to adapt to new experiences, objects or scenarios) and learning
potential (i.e. ability to master new experiences), and provides tips on object selection, scene design,
execution, and type of analysis that should be done for proper evaluation. Kiela et al. [2021] proposed
a framework for benchmarking in NLP that uniﬁes dataset creation, model development, and model
assessment, in a dynamic way with humans and models in the loop. Although their proposal aims at
addressing issues with traditional static benchmarks, it also sets clear standards for making new tasks
and benchmarks. Denton et al. [2020] look at the dataset construction process with respect to the
concerns along the ethical and political dimensions of what has been taken for granted, and discuss
how thinking about data within a dataset must be holistic, future-looking, and aligned with ethical
principles and values. Bender and Friedman [2018] also proposed using data statements for NLP
datasets in order to provide context that allows users to better understand how experimental results
on that dataset might generalize, how software might be appropriately deployed, and what biases
might be reﬂected in systems built on the software.

Another issue that is rather common in many of the ML benchmarks is that the top-scoring models
are often overly complex or specialized. Sometimes they are ensembles of different methods or
there are fancy techniques involved in the training process. Sometimes these complex methods
grand-father the benchmark by staying at the top position for a long time, which might kill the
potential of elegant models having their moment of fame and get the chance of shining and being
picked by the researchers as good starting points. One idea to address this issue can be rewarding
simplicity and ease of adaptation, and different benchmarks and tasks, there may be ways to deﬁne a
quantitative metric to be taken into account when ranking models. From a more general point of view,
one of the main issues here is the assumption that there is a single ideal model, while the appropriate
model is, in fact, a function of context. In other words, dimensions considered for ranking models are
inherently dynamic and can change as the application changes. Thus besides simplicity, many factors
can play a role in choosing the best model, given the requirements of the context.

15

In Section 6 we pointed out that sometimes the blocking factor or conduction rigorous evaluation is
the high computational costs, in particular for the academic environment. For instance, analyzing
all possible sources of variance in the performance is prohibitively expensive. As a potential
solution to this problem, the community can invest more in setting up initiatives like reproducibility
challenges11 or specialized tracks at conferences that offer help in terms of expertise, infrastructure,
and computational resources for extensive evaluation to the papers submitted to that conference.

Guidelines for benchmark usage. Besides the necessity of making guidelines for “how to make
new benchmark”, it is important to have clear guidelines for “how to use a benchmark”, which for
instance includes the exact setup that the benchmark should be used for evaluation or how the results
should be reported. This would be a great help with reducing the instances of rigging the lottery
prevalent in some domains (Section 6).

Most modern benchmarks have a “how to” section that focuses on the technical aspects, such as
loading the data, or installing helper libraries, and using utility functions, running the baselines or the
evaluation scripts, or submitting entries to the leaderboard. This is very helpful with getting started
with a new benchmark, but is insufﬁcient to prevent inconsistencies between publications in the
adapted setups or the way results are presented. Such inconsistencies make it difﬁcult to understand
the progress in the ﬁeld based on these benchmarks. We believe that these “how to” sections can be
expanded into guidelines providing a set of recommendations for a process to follow when using
the benchmark in order to avoid shortcuts that undermine the validity of ﬁndings. Furthermore,
because in some cases, like those that the method is supposed to work with open data, the difﬁculty
of using the default benchmark setup is the main cause for researchers to diverge from that setup, the
guidelines could also focus on establishing standard methodologies for principled comparison and
analysis of experimental results (see also Section 7.2).

Top scoring approaches on any benchmark are often overly complex, overly-specialized models,
heavy multi-scale ensembles, fancy training techniques, etc. How do we organize benchmarks/metrics
for the "simplest baseline that just works".

There are also several efforts targeting this goal. For instance, Albrecht et al. [2015], Machado
et al. [2018] propose speciﬁc standards for the ALE benchmark (discussed in Section 6.2) to have
more comparable numbers across different baselines. There is also literature highlighting the issue
of reporting a single number as the quality of a model, which encourages blindly optimizing for
climbing a leaderboard without taking other aspects into account. Ethayarajh and Jurafsky [2020]
argue against ranking models merely based on their performance and discuss the example of a highly
inefﬁcient model that provides little utility to practitioners but ranks well on leaderboards. To shed
light on such instances, they propose to always report model size, energy efﬁciency, inference latency,
and metrics indicating model robustness and generalization to the out-of-distribution data. Gebru
et al. [2018] proposed that every dataset be accompanied by a datasheet that documents its motivation,
composition, collection process, recommended uses, etc with the goal of increasing transparency and
accountability, mitigating unwanted biases in ML systems, facilitating greater reproducibility, and
helping researchers and practitioners select more appropriate datasets for their chosen tasks.

Another important problem that can beneﬁt from established regulation is the hyper-parameter tuning
budget used by researchers to improve their model performance. Spending enough time and compute
to precisely tune hyper-parameters of the model or the training process can improve the results a great
deal [Li et al., 2018, Bello et al., 2021, Steiner et al., 2021]. Given that, a guideline on limiting the
budget for the hyper-parameter tuning can curb the improvements that are solely based on exhausting
hyper-parameter search and gives a chance to have comparisons that are tied less to the computational
budget of the proposing entity, but more to the merits of the methods themselves.

Guidelines for conferences and reviewers. There have been attempts to ameliorate the problems
related to the benchmark lottery, especially its community biases and the statefulness aspects (Sec-
tions 4 and 5). For example, NLP conferences have specially called out “not being SOTA” as an
invalid basis for paper rejection12 We believe it is possible to leverage education through the review
process in order to alleviate many negative aspects of benchmark lottery.

11For instance https://paperswithcode.com/rc2020, https://reproducibility-challenge.gi

thub.io/iclr_2019/, or https://reproducibility-challenge.github.io/neurips2019/

12https://2020.emnlp.org/blog/2020-05-17-write-good-reviews.

16

As an example, we can make sure that in the review process, scores on a particular benchmark are not
used for immediate comparison with the top-ranking method on that benchmark, but rather as a sanity
check for new models and simply an efﬁcient way of comparing against multiple baselines. This way,
fundamentally new approaches will have a chance to develop and mature instead of being forced to
compete for top performance right away or get rejected if not succeeded in the early attempts.

7.2 Statistical signiﬁcance testing

The presence of established benchmarks and metrics alone does not necessarily lead to a steady
improvement of research ideas; it should also be accompanied by rigorous procedures for comparing
these ideas on the said benchmarks. For example, Armstrong et al. [2009] discuss the importance of
comparing improvements to the strongest available baselines, and how the lack of such practice was
responsible for a decade of stagnation experienced by the ﬁeld of information retrieval in the early
2000s. Luckily modern day ML research largely overcame this issue by setting up strong baseline
expectations and incentives for making research easily reproducible (e.g. citations and general interest
in publications sharing source code). However, the question of how do we know that if a new model
B is signiﬁcantly better than its predecessor model A remains anything but solved 10 years later [Lin
et al., 2021].
Benchmark results as random samples. Machine learning models are usually trained on a training
set and evaluated on the corresponding held out test set, where some performance metric m is
computed. Because model training is subject to sources of uncontrolled variance, the resulting metric
m should be viewed as a single sample from the distribution describing the model’s performance.
Because of that, deciding which of the two models is better based on point estimates of their
performances mA and mB may be unreliable due to chance alone. Instead distributions of these
metrics p(mA) and p(mB) can be compared using statistical signiﬁcance testing to determine whether
the chance that model A is at least as good as model B is low, i.e. p(A ≤ B) < α for some a priori
chosen signiﬁcance level α. Estimation of p(A ≤ B) forms for the crux of statistical signiﬁcance
testing. It can be done either by using parametric tests that make assumptions on distributions p(mA)
and p(mB) and thus often need fewer samples from these distributions, or by using non-parametric
tests that rely on directly estimating the metric distributions and require more samples.

B > m(cid:48)

B ∼ p(mB) such that m(cid:48)

The popularity of standardized benchmarks and exponential growth in the amount of research that
the ML community has experienced in recent years13 exacerbate the risk of inadvertently misguiding
research through lax standards on declaring a model as an improvement on the SOTA. Indeed, if point
estimates are used in place of statistical signiﬁcance testing procedures, sampling m(cid:48)
A ∼ p(mA) and
m(cid:48)
A is only a matter of time, even if performance of the two models
is not actually different. Note that this is not the same as the issue described in Section 5, but could
instead be thought of as winning a lottery if you purchase enough lottery tickets.
Beyond a single train-test split. Unfortunately, researchers rarely go through the process of collect-
ing strong empirical evidence that model B signiﬁcantly outperforms model A. This is not surprising.
As discussed in Bouthillier et al. [2021], obtaining such evidence amounts to running multiple trials
of hyper-parameter optimization over sources of variation such as dataset splits, data ordering, data
augmentation, stochastic regularisation (e.g. dropout), and random initialization to understand the
models’ variance, and is prohibitively expensive14. If studied at all, mean model performance across
several random parameter initializations is used for declaring that the proposed model is a signiﬁcant
improvement. This is vastly sub-optimal because dataset split contributes the most to model variance
compared to other sources of variation [Bouthillier et al., 2021]. However, providing multiple dataset
splits to estimate this variance is not standard practice in benchmark design.

Benchmarks typically come with a single ﬁxed test set, and thus could even be said to unintentionally
discourage the use of accurate statistical testing procedures. This is particularly problematic for
mature benchmarks (i.e. Stage 4; see Section 2.1), where the magnitude of model improvements may
become comparable to the model variance. Systematic variance underestimation may lead to a series
of false positives (i.e. incorrectly declaring a model to be a signiﬁcant improvement) that stall research
progress, or worse - lead the research community astray by innovating on “improved overﬁtting” in

13https://neuripsconf.medium.com/what-we-learned-from-neurips-2020-reviewing-pro

cess-e24549eea38f

14Although Bouthillier et al. [2021] also propose a pragmatic alternative to the exhaustive study of all source

of variation.

17

place of algorithmic improvements. Going forward, one way of addressing this limitation is to design
benchmarks with multiple ﬁxed dataset splits. As an added beneﬁt, model performance reported
across such standardized splits would also enable the application of a variety of statistical tests not
only within the same study, but also across publications.

Contrary to the above concern, a recent study of the progress on the ImageNet benchmark [Recht
et al., 2019, Deng et al., 2009] found that in image classiﬁcation overﬁtting on the test does not
appear to be an issue despite the benchmark’s popularity. Recht et al. found that algorithms ranked
consistently when re-trained on a different train-test split, and that observed drops in performance on
the new test split could be explained by the “difﬁculty” of the test images rather than overﬁtting on
the original test split. It may thus also be acceptable to take a shortcut and rely on a single train-test
split for benchmarks so long as there are also periodic studies such as [Recht et al., 2019] that double
check that the research community is still making progress. Having said that, the decision of whether
such shortcut can be used should be made on a case-by-case basis, and there is no harm in producing
multiple standardized train-test splits for a new benchmark even if a single split ends up being used.
Benchmark design with statistical testing in mind. The choice of a suitable statistical testing
procedure is non-trivial. It must consider the distribution of the metric m that is being compared, the
assumption that can be safely made about the distribution (i.e whether a parametric test is applicable
or a non-parametric test should be used), the number of statistical tests performed (i.e. whether
multiple testing correction is employed) and can also change as the understanding of the metric
evolves [Demšar, 2006, Bouthillier et al., 2021, Lin et al., 2021]. We, therefore, recommend that
benchmark design is accompanied by the recommendation of the suitable statistical testing procedures,
including the number dataset splits discussed above, number of replicates experiments, known sources
of variance that should be randomized, the statistic to be computed across these experiments and the
signiﬁcance level that should be used for determining statistically signiﬁcant results. This would not
only help the adoption of statistical testing for ML benchmarks, but also serve as a centralized source
for best practices that are allowed to evolve. A detailed discussion of statistical testing is outside of
the scope of this paper, and we refer interested readers to [Bouthillier et al., 2021, Dror et al., 2017]
for an overview of statistical testing procedures for ML.
Beyond a single dataset. Often we are interested in understanding whether model B is signiﬁcantly
better than model A across a range of tasks. These kinds of comparisons are facilitated by benchmarks
that span multiple datasets (e.g. VTAB or GLUE). Already the question of what it means to do better
on a multi-task benchmark is non-trivial due to the task selection bias (see Section 3) - is it sufﬁcient
for model B to do better on average; or should it outperform model A on all tasks? It is not surprising
that the statistical testing procedures for such benchmarks are also more nuanced - the answer to
this question leads to different procedures. It is unclear whether the average metric across datasets,
a popular choice for reporting model performance, is meaningful15 because the errors on different
datasets may not be commensurable, and because models can have vastly different performance and
variances across these datasets. For this reason, more elaborate procedures are required. For example,
for the case when we are interested in seeing whether B outperforms A on average Demšar [2006]
propose to ignore the variance on individual datasets and treat the model A and B’s performance
across datasets as samples from two distributions that should be compared. They recommend that
the Wilcoxon signed-rank should be used in such a setup; but the recommended can have limited
statistical power when the number of datasets in the benchmark is small. Alternatively, for cases
when we are interested in seeing whether B is better than A on all datasets Dror et al. [2017]
propose to perform statistical testing on each of the datasets separately while performing multiple
testing corrections. Here again the “right” statistical testing procedure depends on the benchmark,
its composition, and the criteria for preferring one model over another; and we believe that the
community would beneﬁt if these questions were explicitly answered during benchmark design.

7.3 Rise of living benchmarks

Another major issue for many popular benchmarks is “creeping overﬁtting”, as algorithms over time
become too adapted to the dataset, essentially memorizing all its idiosyncrasies, and losing the ability
to generalize. This is essentially related to the statefulness of benchmarks discussed in Section 5.
Besides that, measuring progress can be sometimes chasing a moving target since the meaning of
progress might change as the research landscape evolves.

15In fact for that reason it was not a popular choice until recently [Demšar, 2006].

18

This problem can be greatly alleviated by for instance changing the dataset that is used for evaluation
regularly, as it is done by many annual competitions or reoccurring evaluation venues, like WMT16
or TREC17. Besides that, withholding the test set and limiting the number of times a method can
query the test set for evaluation on it can also potentially reduce the effect of adaptive overﬁtting
and benchmark reuse. In a more general term, an effective approach is to turn our benchmarks
into “living entities”. If a benchmark constantly evolves, for instance, adds new examples, adds
new tasks, deprecates older data, and ﬁxes labeling mistakes, it is less prone to “tricks” and highly
robust models would ﬁnd themselves consistently doing well across versions of the benchmark.
As examples of a benchmark with such a dynamic nature, GEM is a living benchmark for natural
language generation [Gehrmann et al., 2021] or Dynabench [Kiela et al., 2021] proposes putting
humans and models in the data collection loop where we continuously reevaluate the problem that we
really care about.

8 Epilogue

Ubiquitous access to benchmarks and datasets has been responsible for much of the recent progress
in machine learning. We are observing the constant emergence of new benchmarks. And on the one
hand, the development of benchmarks is perhaps a sign of continued progress, but on the other hand,
there is a danger of getting stuck in a vicious cycle of investing in making static benchmarks that
soon will be rejected due to the inﬂexible ﬂaws in their setup, or lack of generality and possibility for
expansion and improvements. We are in the midst of a data revolution and have an opportunity to
make faster progress towards the grand goals of artiﬁcial intelligence if we understand the pitfalls
of the current state of benchmarking in machine learning. The “benchmark lottery” provides just
one of the narratives of struggling against benchmark-induced model selection bias. Several topics
we touched upon in this paper are discussed in the form of opinions or with a minimum depth as a
call for further discussion. We believe each subtopic deserves a dedicated study, like how to better
integrate checks for ethical concerns in the mainstream evaluation of every existing benchmark, how
to develop tools and libraries that facilitate the rigorous testing of the claimed improvements, or a
deep investigation of the social dynamics of the review process and how to improve it. In the end,
there are many reasons to be excited about the future - the community is continuously taking positive
delta changes that contribute to ﬁxing issues with measuring progress in the empirical machine
learning.

Acknowledgement

We would like to thank Lucas Beyer, Alexander Kolesnikov, and Xiaohua Zhai for their help and
the information they provided us to analyze the VTAB benchmark. Also Lasse Espeholt and Julian
Schrittwieser for the pointers they provided for the RL Unplugged analyses and ﬁnally Sharan Narang
for helping us with the data needed for the SuperGLUE analyses. We are also grateful to Samira
Abnar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Avital Oliver, and Anurag Arnab for their fruitful comments and inspiration
on the topic along the way. We would like to thank Sara Hooker, Jason Baldridge, Alex Hanna, Emily
Dentone, and Douglas Eck for the feedback they provided to improve the paper. And ﬁnally, we
would like to also thank anonymous reviewers of the datasets and benchmarks track of NeurIPS for
their feedback, fresh ideas, and suggestions to improve the paper.

References

Samira Abnar, Mostafa Dehghani, and Willem Zuidema. Transferring inductive biases through

knowledge distillation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.00555, 2020.

Stefano V Albrecht, J Christopher Beck, David L Buckeridge, Adi Botea, Cornelia Caragea, Chi-hung
Chi, Theodoros Damoulas, Bistra Dilkina, Eric Eaton, Pooyan Fazli, et al. Reports on the 2015
aaai workshop program. Ai Magazine, 36(2):90–101, 2015.

Jacopo Amidei, Paul Piwek, and Alistair Willis. Evaluation methodologies in automatic question

generation 2013-2018. 2018.

16http://statmt.org/
17https://trec.nist.gov/

19

Jacopo Amidei, Paul Piwek, and Alistair Willis. Identifying annotator bias: A new irt-based method

for bias identiﬁcation. 2020.

Timothy G Armstrong, Alistair Moffat, William Webber, and Justin Zobel. Improvements that
don’t add up: ad-hoc retrieval results since 1998. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM conference on
Information and knowledge management, pages 601–610, 2009.

Sanjeev Arora and Yi Zhang. Rip van winkle’s razor: A simple estimate of overﬁt to test data. arXiv

preprint arXiv:2102.13189, 2021.

Dzmitry Bahdanau, Kyunghyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. Neural machine translation by jointly

learning to align and translate. arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.0473, 2014.

David Balduzzi, Karl Tuyls, Julien Perolat, and Thore Graepel. Re-evaluating evaluation. arXiv

preprint arXiv:1806.02643, 2018.

Charles Beattie, Joel Z Leibo, Denis Teplyashin, Tom Ward, Marcus Wainwright, Heinrich Küttler,
Andrew Lefrancq, Simon Green, Víctor Valdés, Amir Sadik, et al. Deepmind lab. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1612.03801, 2016.

Marc G Bellemare, Yavar Naddaf, Joel Veness, and Michael Bowling. The arcade learning environ-
ment: An evaluation platform for general agents. Journal of Artiﬁcial Intelligence Research, 47:
253–279, 2013.

Irwan Bello, William Fedus, Xianzhi Du, Ekin D Cubuk, Aravind Srinivas, Tsung-Yi Lin, Jonathon
Shlens, and Barret Zoph. Revisiting resnets: Improved training and scaling strategies. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2103.07579, 2021.

Emily M Bender and Batya Friedman. Data statements for natural language processing: Toward miti-
gating system bias and enabling better science. Transactions of the Association for Computational
Linguistics, 6:587–604, 2018.

Alex Beutel, Ed H Chi, Zhiyuan Cheng, Hubert Pham, and John Anderson. Beyond globally optimal:
In Proceedings of the 26th International

Focused learning for improved recommendations.
Conference on World Wide Web, pages 203–212, 2017.

Lucas Beyer, Olivier J Hénaff, Alexander Kolesnikov, Xiaohua Zhai, and Aäron van den Oord. Are

we done with ImageNet? arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.07159, 2020.

Avrim Blum and Moritz Hardt. The ladder: A reliable leaderboard for machine learning competitions.

In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 1006–1014. PMLR, 2015.

Xavier Bouthillier, César Laurent, and Pascal Vincent. Unreproducible research is reproducible. In

International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 725–734. PMLR, 2019.

Xavier Bouthillier, Pierre Delaunay, Mirko Bronzi, Assya Troﬁmov, Brennan Nichyporuk, Justin
Szeto, Nazanin Mohammadi Sepahvand, Edward Raff, Kanika Madan, Vikram Voleti, et al.
Accounting for variance in machine learning benchmarks. Proceedings of Machine Learning and
Systems, 3, 2021.

Samuel R Bowman and George E Dahl. What will it take to ﬁx benchmarking in natural language

understanding? arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.02145, 2021.

Samuel R Bowman, Gabor Angeli, Christopher Potts, and Christopher D Manning. A large annotated

corpus for learning natural language inference. arXiv preprint arXiv:1508.05326, 2015.

Tom B Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal,
Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. Language models are
few-shot learners. arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.14165, 2020.

Gong Cheng, Junwei Han, and Xiaoqiang Lu. Remote sensing image scene classiﬁcation: Benchmark

and state of the art. Proceedings of the IEEE, 105(10):1865–1883, 2017.

20

Mircea Cimpoi, Subhransu Maji, Iasonas Kokkinos, Sammy Mohamed, and Andrea Vedaldi. De-
scribing textures in the wild. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, pages 3606–3613, 2014.

Kevin Clark, Minh-Thang Luong, Quoc V Le, and Christopher D Manning. Electra: Pre-training text

encoders as discriminators rather than generators. arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.10555, 2020.

Maurizio Ferrari Dacrema, Paolo Cremonesi, and Dietmar Jannach. Are we really making much
progress? a worrying analysis of recent neural recommendation approaches. In Proceedings of the
13th ACM Conference on Recommender Systems, pages 101–109, 2019.

Mostafa Dehghani, Stephan Gouws, Oriol Vinyals, Jakob Uszkoreit, and Lukasz Kaiser. Universal
transformers. In Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR’19, 2019. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.03819.

Janez Demšar. Statistical comparisons of classiﬁers over multiple data sets. The Journal of Machine

Learning Research, 7:1–30, 2006.

Jia Deng, Wei Dong, Richard Socher, Li-Jia Li, Kai Li, and Li Fei-Fei. ImageNet: A large-scale
hierarchical image database. In 2009 IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,
pages 248–255. Ieee, 2009.

Emily Denton, Alex Hanna, Razvan Amironesei, Andrew Smart, Hilary Nicole, and Morgan Klaus
Scheuerman. Bringing the people back in: Contesting benchmark machine learning datasets. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2007.07399, 2020.

Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. Bert: Pre-training of deep
bidirectional transformers for language understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805, 2018.

Jesse Dodge, Suchin Gururangan, Dallas Card, Roy Schwartz, and Noah A Smith. Show your work:

Improved reporting of experimental results. arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.03004, 2019.

Alexey Dosovitskiy, Lucas Beyer, Alexander Kolesnikov, Dirk Weissenborn, Xiaohua Zhai, Thomas
Unterthiner, Mostafa Dehghani, Matthias Minderer, Georg Heigold, Sylvain Gelly, et al. An
image is worth 16x16 words: Transformers for image recognition at scale. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2010.11929, 2020.

Rotem Dror, Gili Baumer, Marina Bogomolov, and Roi Reichart. Replicability analysis for natural
language processing: Testing signiﬁcance with multiple datasets. Transactions of the Association
for Computational Linguistics, 5:471–486, 2017.

Gabriel Dulac-Arnold, Daniel Mankowitz, and Todd Hester. Challenges of real-world reinforcement

learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.12901, 2019.

Cynthia Dwork, Ravi Kumar, Moni Naor, and Dandapani Sivakumar. Rank aggregation methods for
the web. In Proceedings of the 10th international conference on World Wide Web, pages 613–622,
2001.

Cynthia Dwork, Vitaly Feldman, Moritz Hardt, Toniann Pitassi, Omer Reingold, and Aaron Roth.
The reusable holdout: Preserving validity in adaptive data analysis. Science, 349(6248):636–638,
2015.

Kawin Ethayarajh and Dan Jurafsky. Utility is in the eye of the user: A critique of nlp leaderboards.

arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.13888, 2020.

William Fedus, Barret Zoph, and Noam Shazeer. Switch transformers: Scaling to trillion parameter

models with simple and efﬁcient sparsity. arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.03961, 2021.

Li Fei-Fei, Rob Fergus, and Pietro Perona. One-shot learning of object categories. IEEE transactions

on pattern analysis and machine intelligence, 28(4):594–611, 2006.

Vitaly Feldman, Roy Frostig, and Moritz Hardt. The advantages of multiple classes for reducing
overﬁtting from test set reuse. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 1892–1900.
PMLR, 2019a.

21

Vitaly Feldman, Roy Frostig, and Moritz Hardt. Open problem: How fast can a multiclass test set be

overﬁt? In Conference on Learning Theory, pages 3185–3189. PMLR, 2019b.

Timnit Gebru, Jamie Morgenstern, Briana Vecchione, Jennifer Wortman Vaughan, Hanna Wallach,
Hal Daumé III, and Kate Crawford. Datasheets for datasets. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.09010,
2018.

Sebastian Gehrmann, Tosin Adewumi, Karmanya Aggarwal, Pawan Sasanka Ammanamanchi, Aremu
Anuoluwapo, Antoine Bosselut, Khyathi Raghavi Chandu, Miruna Clinciu, Dipanjan Das, Kaus-
tubh D Dhole, et al. The GEM benchmark: Natural language generation, its evaluation and metrics.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.01672, 2021.

Andreas Geiger, Philip Lenz, Christoph Stiller, and Raquel Urtasun. Vision meets robotics: The kitti

dataset. The International Journal of Robotics Research, 32(11):1231–1237, 2013.

Ian Goodfellow, Jean Pouget-Abadie, Mehdi Mirza, Bing Xu, David Warde-Farley, Sherjil Ozair,
Aaron Courville, and Yoshua Bengio. Generative adversarial nets. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 27, 2014.

Caglar Gulcehre, Ziyu Wang, Alexander Novikov, Thomas Paine, Sergio Gómez, Konrad Zolna,
Rishabh Agarwal, Josh S Merel, Daniel J Mankowitz, Cosmin Paduraru, et al. Rl unplugged:
A collection of benchmarks for ofﬂine reinforcement learning. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 33, 2020.

Ruiqi Guo, Quan Geng, David Simcha, Felix Chern, Sanjiv Kumar, and Xiang Wu. New loss
functions for fast maximum inner product search. CoRR, abs/1908.10396, 2019. URL http:
//arxiv.org/abs/1908.10396.

Suchin Gururangan, Swabha Swayamdipta, Omer Levy, Roy Schwartz, Samuel Bowman, and
Noah A. Smith. Annotation artifacts in natural language inference data. In Proceedings of the
2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies, Volume 2 (Short Papers), pages 107–112, New Orleans, Louisiana,
June 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/N18-2017. URL
https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N18-2017.

Feng Hao and Peter YA Ryan. Real-world electronic voting: Design, analysis and deployment. CRC

Press, 2016.

F. Maxwell Harper and Joseph A. Konstan. The movielens datasets: History and context. ACM
Trans. Interact. Intell. Syst., 5(4), December 2015. ISSN 2160-6455. doi: 10.1145/2827872. URL
https://doi.org/10.1145/2827872.

Matthew Hausknecht, Joel Lehman, Risto Miikkulainen, and Peter Stone. A neuroevolution approach
to general atari game playing. IEEE Transactions on Computational Intelligence and AI in Games,
6(4):355–366, 2014.

Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. Deep residual learning for image
recognition. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,
pages 770–778, 2016a.

Ruining He and Julian McAuley. Ups and downs: Modeling the visual evolution of fashion trends
with one-class collaborative ﬁltering. In proceedings of the 25th international conference on world
wide web, pages 507–517, 2016.

Xiangnan He, Hanwang Zhang, Min-Yen Kan, and Tat-Seng Chua. Fast matrix factorization for
online recommendation with implicit feedback. In Proceedings of the 39th International ACM
SIGIR conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pages 549–558, 2016b.

Xiangnan He, Lizi Liao, Hanwang Zhang, Liqiang Nie, Xia Hu, and Tat-Seng Chua. Neural
collaborative ﬁltering. In Proceedings of the 26th international conference on world wide web,
pages 173–182, 2017.

22

Nicolas Heess, Dhruva TB, Srinivasan Sriram, Jay Lemmon, Josh Merel, Greg Wayne, Yuval Tassa,
Tom Erez, Ziyu Wang, SM Eslami, et al. Emergence of locomotion behaviours in rich environments.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.02286, 2017.

Patrick Helber, Benjamin Bischke, Andreas Dengel, and Damian Borth. Eurosat: A novel dataset
and deep learning benchmark for land use and land cover classiﬁcation. IEEE Journal of Selected
Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing, 12(7):2217–2226, 2019.

Peter Henderson, Riashat Islam, Philip Bachman, Joelle Pineau, Doina Precup, and David Meger.
Deep reinforcement learning that matters. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial
Intelligence, volume 32, 2018.

Dan Hendrycks and Thomas Dietterich. Benchmarking neural network robustness to common corrup-
tions and perturbations. Proceedings of the International Conference on Learning Representations,
2019.

Dan Hendrycks, Steven Basart, Norman Mu, Saurav Kadavath, Frank Wang, Evan Dorundo, Rahul
Desai, Tyler Zhu, Samyak Parajuli, Mike Guo, Dawn Song, Jacob Steinhardt, and Justin Gilmer.
The many faces of robustness: A critical analysis of out-of-distribution generalization. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2006.16241, 2020.

Dan Hendrycks, Kevin Zhao, Steven Basart, Jacob Steinhardt, and Dawn Song. Natural adversarial

examples. CVPR, 2021.

Irina Higgins, Loic Matthey, Arka Pal, Christopher Burgess, Xavier Glorot, Matthew Botvinick,
Shakir Mohamed, and Alexander Lerchner. beta-vae: Learning basic visual concepts with a
constrained variational framework. 2016.

Geoffrey Hinton, Oriol Vinyals, and Jeff Dean. Distilling the knowledge in a neural network. arXiv

preprint arXiv:1503.02531, 2015.

Sara Hooker. The hardware lottery. arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.06489, 2020.

Junjie Hu, Sebastian Ruder, Aditya Siddhant, Graham Neubig, Orhan Firat, and Melvin Johnson.
Xtreme: A massively multilingual multi-task benchmark for evaluating cross-lingual generalization.
CoRR, abs/2003.11080, 2020.

Max Jaderberg, Volodymyr Mnih, Wojciech Marian Czarnecki, Tom Schaul, Joel Z Leibo, David
Silver, and Koray Kavukcuoglu. Reinforcement learning with unsupervised auxiliary tasks. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1611.05397, 2016.

Justin Johnson, Bharath Hariharan, Laurens Van Der Maaten, Li Fei-Fei, C Lawrence Zitnick, and
Ross Girshick. Clevr: A diagnostic dataset for compositional language and elementary visual
reasoning. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
pages 2901–2910, 2017.

Kaggle and EyePacs. Kaggle diabetic retinopathy detection., 2015. URL https://www.kaggle.c

om/c/diabetic-retinopathy-detection/data.

Douwe Kiela, Max Bartolo, Yixin Nie, Divyansh Kaushik, Atticus Geiger, Zhengxuan Wu, Bertie
Vidgen, Grusha Prasad, Amanpreet Singh, Pratik Ringshia, et al. Dynabench: Rethinking bench-
marking in nlp. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.14337, 2021.

Diederik P Kingma and Max Welling. Auto-encoding variational bayes.

arXiv preprint

arXiv:1312.6114, 2013.

Alexander Kolesnikov, Lucas Beyer, Xiaohua Zhai, Joan Puigcerver, Jessica Yung, Sylvain Gelly,
and Neil Houlsby. Big transfer (bit): General visual representation learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1912.11370, 2019.

Alex Krizhevsky, Geoffrey Hinton, et al. Learning multiple layers of features from tiny images. 2009.

Zhenzhong Lan, Mingda Chen, Sebastian Goodman, Kevin Gimpel, Piyush Sharma, and Radu
Soricut. Albert: A lite bert for self-supervised learning of language representations. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1909.11942, 2019.

23

Yann LeCun, Fu Jie Huang, and Leon Bottou. Learning methods for generic object recognition with
invariance to pose and lighting. In Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE Computer Society Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2004. CVPR 2004., volume 2, pages II–104. IEEE,
2004.

Liam Li, Kevin Jamieson, Afshin Rostamizadeh, Ekaterina Gonina, Moritz Hardt, Benjamin Recht,
and Ameet Talwalkar. A system for massively parallel hyperparameter tuning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1810.05934, 2018.

Yitao Liang, Marlos C Machado, Erik Talvitie, and Michael Bowling. State of the art control of atari

games using shallow reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1512.01563, 2015.

Jimmy Lin. The neural hype and comparisons against weak baselines. ACM SIGIR Forum, 52(2):

40–51, 2019.

Jimmy Lin, Daniel Campos, Nick Craswell, Bhaskar Mitra, and Emine Yilmaz. Signiﬁcant improve-
ments over the state of the art? a case study of the ms marco document ranking leaderboard. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2102.12887, 2021.

Tal Linzen, Emmanuel Dupoux, and Yoav Goldberg. Assessing the ability of lstms to learn syntax-
sensitive dependencies. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 4(0),
2016.

Nir Lipovetzky, Miquel Ramirez, and Hector Geffner. Classical planning with simulators: Results on

the atari video games. In Proc. IJCAI, 2015.

Zachary C Lipton and Jacob Steinhardt. Troubling trends in machine learning scholarship. arXiv

preprint arXiv:1807.03341, 2018.

Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Mandar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer Levy, Mike
Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. Roberta: A robustly optimized bert pretraining
approach. arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.11692, 2019.

Marlos C Machado, Marc G Bellemare, Erik Talvitie, Joel Veness, Matthew Hausknecht, and Michael
Bowling. Revisiting the arcade learning environment: Evaluation protocols and open problems for
general agents. Journal of Artiﬁcial Intelligence Research, 61:523–562, 2018.

Benjamin Marie, Atsushi Fujita, and Raphael Rubino. Scientiﬁc credibility of machine translation

research: A meta-evaluation of 769 papers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.15195, 2021.

Jarryd Martin, Suraj Narayanan Sasikumar, Tom Everitt, and Marcus Hutter. Count-based exploration

in feature space for reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1706.08090, 2017.

Donald Metzler and Oren Kurland. Experimental methods for information retrieval. In Proceedings
of the 35th international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information
retrieval, pages 1185–1186, 2012.

Tomas Mikolov, Ilya Sutskever, Kai Chen, Greg S Corrado, and Jeff Dean. Distributed representations
of words and phrases and their compositionality. In Advances in neural information processing
systems, pages 3111–3119, 2013.

Swaroop Mishra and Anjana Arunkumar. How robust are model rankings: A leaderboard customiza-

tion approach for equitable evaluation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.05532, 2021.

Volodymyr Mnih, Koray Kavukcuoglu, David Silver, Alex Graves, Ioannis Antonoglou, Daan
Wierstra, and Martin Riedmiller. Playing atari with deep reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1312.5602, 2013.

Volodymyr Mnih, Koray Kavukcuoglu, David Silver, Andrei A Rusu, Joel Veness, Marc G Bellemare,
Alex Graves, Martin Riedmiller, Andreas K Fidjeland, Georg Ostrovski, et al. Human-level control
through deep reinforcement learning. nature, 518(7540):529–533, 2015.

Volodymyr Mnih, Adria Puigdomenech Badia, Mehdi Mirza, Alex Graves, Timothy Lillicrap, Tim
Harley, David Silver, and Koray Kavukcuoglu. Asynchronous methods for deep reinforcement
learning. In International conference on machine learning, pages 1928–1937. PMLR, 2016.

24

Kevin Musgrave, Serge Belongie, and Ser-Nam Lim. A metric learning reality check. In European

Conference on Computer Vision, pages 681–699. Springer, 2020.

Arun Nair, Praveen Srinivasan, Sam Blackwell, Cagdas Alcicek, Rory Fearon, Alessandro De Maria,
Vedavyas Panneershelvam, Mustafa Suleyman, Charles Beattie, Stig Petersen, et al. Massively
parallel methods for deep reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1507.04296, 2015.

Sharan Narang, Hyung Won Chung, Yi Tay, William Fedus, Thibault Fevry, Michael Matena,
Karishma Malkan, Noah Fiedel, Noam Shazeer, Zhenzhong Lan, Yanqi Zhou, Wei Li, Nan Ding,
Jake Marcus, Adam Roberts, and Colin Raffel. Do transformer modiﬁcations transfer across
implementations and applications?, 2021.

Yuval Netzer, Tao Wang, Adam Coates, Alessandro Bissacco, Bo Wu, and Andrew Y Ng. Reading

digits in natural images with unsupervised feature learning. 2011.

Maria-Elena Nilsback and Andrew Zisserman. Automated ﬂower classiﬁcation over a large number
of classes. In 2008 Sixth Indian Conference on Computer Vision, Graphics & Image Processing,
pages 722–729. IEEE, 2008.

Curtis G Northcutt, Anish Athalye, and Jonas Mueller. Pervasive label errors in test sets destabilize

machine learning benchmarks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.14749, 2021.

Omkar M Parkhi, Andrea Vedaldi, Andrew Zisserman, and CV Jawahar. Cats and dogs. In 2012
IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 3498–3505. IEEE, 2012.

Changhua Pei, Yi Zhang, Yongfeng Zhang, Fei Sun, Xiao Lin, Hanxiao Sun, Jian Wu, Peng Jiang,
Junfeng Ge, Wenwu Ou, et al. Personalized re-ranking for recommendation. In Proceedings of the
13th ACM Conference on Recommender Systems, pages 3–11, 2019.

Federico Perazzi, Jordi Pont-Tuset, Brian McWilliams, Luc Van Gool, Markus Gross, and Alexander
Sorkine-Hornung. A benchmark dataset and evaluation methodology for video object segmentation.
In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 724–732,
2016.

Jean Ponce, Tamara L Berg, Mark Everingham, David A Forsyth, Martial Hebert, Svetlana Lazebnik,
Marcin Marszalek, Cordelia Schmid, Bryan C Russell, Antonio Torralba, et al. Dataset issues in
object recognition. In Toward category-level object recognition, pages 29–48. Springer, 2006.

Alexander Pritzel, Benigno Uria, Sriram Srinivasan, Adria Puigdomenech Badia, Oriol Vinyals,
Demis Hassabis, Daan Wierstra, and Charles Blundell. Neural episodic control. In International
Conference on Machine Learning, pages 2827–2836. PMLR, 2017.

Pranav Rajpurkar, Jian Zhang, Konstantin Lopyrev, and Percy Liang. Squad: 100,000+ questions for

machine comprehension of text. arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.05250, 2016.

Pranav Rajpurkar, Robin Jia, and Percy Liang. Know what you don’t know: Unanswerable questions

for squad. arXiv preprint arXiv:1806.03822, 2018.

Benjamin Recht, Rebecca Roelofs, Ludwig Schmidt, and Vaishaal Shankar. Do cifar-10 classiﬁers

generalize to cifar-10? arXiv preprint arXiv:1806.00451, 2018.

Benjamin Recht, Rebecca Roelofs, Ludwig Schmidt, and Vaishaal Shankar. Do ImageNet classiﬁers
generalize to ImageNet? In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 5389–5400.
PMLR, 2019.

Steffen Rendle, Walid Krichene, Li Zhang, and John Anderson. Neural collaborative ﬁltering vs.
matrix factorization revisited. In Fourteenth ACM Conference on Recommender Systems, pages
240–248, 2020.

Rebecca Roelofs, Vaishaal Shankar, Benjamin Recht, Sara Fridovich-Keil, Moritz Hardt, John Miller,
and Ludwig Schmidt. A meta-analysis of overﬁtting in machine learning. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 32:9179–9189, 2019.

25

Stephanie Schoch, Diyi Yang, and Yangfeng Ji. “this is a problem, don’t you agree?” framing and
bias in human evaluation for natural language generation. In Proceedings of the 1st Workshop on
Evaluating NLG Evaluation, pages 10–16, 2020.

Julian Schrittwieser, Thomas Hubert, Amol Mandhane, Mohammadamin Barekatain, Ioannis
Antonoglou, and David Silver. Online and ofﬂine reinforcement learning by planning with a
learned model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.06294, 2021.

David Sculley, Jasper Snoek, Alex Wiltschko, and Ali Rahimi. Winner’s curse? on pace, progress,

and empirical rigor. 2018.

Minjoon Seo, Tom Kwiatkowski, Ankur Parikh, Ali Farhadi, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. Phrase-
indexed question answering: A new challenge for scalable document comprehension. In Pro-
ceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
559–564, Brussels, Belgium, October-November 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics.
doi: 10.18653/v1/D18-1052. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D18-1052.

David Silver, Aja Huang, Chris J Maddison, Arthur Guez, Laurent Sifre, George Van Den Driessche,
Julian Schrittwieser, Ioannis Antonoglou, Veda Panneershelvam, Marc Lanctot, et al. Mastering
the game of go with deep neural networks and tree search. nature, 529(7587):484–489, 2016.

David So, Quoc Le, and Chen Liang. The evolved transformer. In International Conference on

Machine Learning, pages 5877–5886. PMLR, 2019.

Richard Socher, Alex Perelygin, Jean Wu, Jason Chuang, Christopher D. Manning, Andrew Ng, and
Christopher Potts. Recursive deep models for semantic compositionality over a sentiment treebank.
In Proceedings of the 2013 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
pages 1631–1642, Seattle, Washington, USA, October 2013. Association for Computational
Linguistics. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D13-1170.

Andreas Steiner, Alexander Kolesnikov, Xiaohua Zhai, Ross Wightman, Jakob Uszkoreit, and Lucas
Beyer. How to train your vit? data, augmentation, and regularization in vision transformers. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2106.10270, 2021.

Ilya Sutskever, Oriol Vinyals, and Quoc V Le. Sequence to sequence learning with neural networks.

arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.3215, 2014.

Adith Swaminathan, Akshay Krishnamurthy, Alekh Agarwal, Miroslav Dudík, John Langford,
Damien Jose, and Imed Zitouni. Off-policy evaluation for slate recommendation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1605.04812, 2016.

Shayan A Tabrizi, Javid Dadashkarimi, Mostafa Dehghani, Hassan Nasr Esfahani, and Azadeh
Shakery. Revisiting optimal rank aggregation: A dynamic programming approach. In Proceedings
of the 2015 International Conference on The Theory of Information Retrieval, pages 353–356,
2015.

Yuval Tassa, Yotam Doron, Alistair Muldal, Tom Erez, Yazhe Li, Diego de Las Casas, David Budden,
Abbas Abdolmaleki, Josh Merel, Andrew Lefrancq, et al. Deepmind control suite. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1801.00690, 2018.

Yi Tay, Dara Bahri, Donald Metzler, Da-Cheng Juan, Zhe Zhao, and Che Zheng. Synthesizer:

Rethinking self-attention in transformer models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.00743, 2020a.

Yi Tay, Mostafa Dehghani, Samira Abnar, Yikang Shen, Dara Bahri, Philip Pham, Jinfeng Rao,
Liu Yang, Sebastian Ruder, and Donald Metzler. Long range arena: A benchmark for efﬁcient
transformers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.04006, 2020b.

Yi Tay, Mostafa Dehghani, Dara Bahri, and Donald Metzler. Efﬁcient transformers: A survey. arXiv

preprint arXiv:2009.06732, 2020c.

Yi Tay, Mostafa Dehghani, Jai Gupta, Dara Bahri, Vamsi Aribandi, Zhen Qin, and Donald Metzler. Are
pre-trained convolutions better than pre-trained transformers? arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.03322,
2021.

26

Ilya Tolstikhin, Olivier Bousquet, Sylvain Gelly, and Bernhard Schoelkopf. Wasserstein auto-encoders.

arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.01558, 2017.

Antonio Torralba and Alexei A Efros. Unbiased look at dataset bias. In CVPR 2011, pages 1521–1528.

IEEE, 2011.

Ke Tran, Arianna Bisazza, and Christof Monz. The importance of being recurrent for modeling
hierarchical structure. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, 2018.

Michael Tschannen, Josip Djolonga, Marvin Ritter, Aravindh Mahendran, Neil Houlsby, Sylvain
Gelly, and Mario Lucic. Self-supervised learning of video-induced visual invariances. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages
13806–13815, 2020.

Alan M. Turing. Computing machinery and intelligence. Mind, LIX(236):433–460, 1950.

Chris Van Der Lee, Albert Gatt, Emiel Van Miltenburg, Sander Wubben, and Emiel Krahmer. Best
practices for the human evaluation of automatically generated text. In Proceedings of the 12th
International Conference on Natural Language Generation, pages 355–368, 2019.

Hado Van Hasselt, Arthur Guez, and David Silver. Deep reinforcement learning with double q-
learning. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, volume 30, 2016.

Clara Vania, Phu Mon Htut, William Huang, Dhara Mungra, Richard Yuanzhe Pang, Jason Phang,
Haokun Liu, Kyunghyun Cho, and Samuel R. Bowman. Comparing test sets with item response
theory. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.00840, 2020.

Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz
In Advances in neural information

Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need.
processing systems, pages 5998–6008, 2017.

Bastiaan S Veeling, Jasper Linmans, Jim Winkens, Taco Cohen, and Max Welling. Rotation equiv-
ariant cnns for digital pathology. In International Conference on Medical image computing and
computer-assisted intervention, pages 210–218. Springer, 2018.

Alex Wang, Amanpreet Singh, Julian Michael, Felix Hill, Omer Levy, and Samuel Bowman. GLUE:
A multi-task benchmark and analysis platform for natural language understanding. In Proceedings
of the 2018 EMNLP Workshop BlackboxNLP: Analyzing and Interpreting Neural Networks for NLP,
pages 353–355, Brussels, Belgium, November 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics.
doi: 10.18653/v1/W18-5446. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W18-5446.

Alex Wang, Yada Pruksachatkun, Nikita Nangia, Amanpreet Singh, Julian Michael, Felix Hill, Omer
Levy, and Samuel R Bowman. Superglue: A stickier benchmark for general-purpose language
understanding systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.00537, 2019.

Ziyu Wang, Tom Schaul, Matteo Hessel, Hado Hasselt, Marc Lanctot, and Nando Freitas. Dueling
network architectures for deep reinforcement learning. In International conference on machine
learning, pages 1995–2003. PMLR, 2016.

Adina Williams, Nikita Nangia, and Samuel R Bowman. A broad-coverage challenge corpus for

sentence understanding through inference. arXiv preprint arXiv:1704.05426, 2017.

Jianxiong Xiao, James Hays, Krista A Ehinger, Aude Oliva, and Antonio Torralba. Sun database:
Large-scale scene recognition from abbey to zoo. In 2010 IEEE computer society conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 3485–3492. IEEE, 2010.

Chhavi Yadav and Léon Bottou. Cold case: The lost mnist digits. arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.10498,

2019.

Zhilin Yang, Zihang Dai, Yiming Yang, Jaime Carbonell, Russ R Salakhutdinov, and Quoc V Le.
Xlnet: Generalized autoregressive pretraining for language understanding. Advances in neural
information processing systems, 32, 2019.

27

Zhilin Yang, Zihang Dai, Yiming Yang, Jaime Carbonell, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Quoc V. Le.

Xlnet: Generalized autoregressive pretraining for language understanding, 2020.

Xinyang Yi, Ji Yang, Lichan Hong, Derek Zhiyuan Cheng, Lukasz Heldt, Aditee Kumthekar, Zhe
Zhao, Li Wei, and Ed Chi. Sampling-bias-corrected neural modeling for large corpus item
recommendations. In Proceedings of the 13th ACM Conference on Recommender Systems, pages
269–277, 2019.

Xiaohua Zhai, Joan Puigcerver, Alexander Kolesnikov, Pierre Ruyssen, Carlos Riquelme, Mario
Lucic, Josip Djolonga, Andre Susano Pinto, Maxim Neumann, Alexey Dosovitskiy, et al. A
large-scale study of representation learning with the visual task adaptation benchmark. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1910.04867, 2019.

Shuai Zhang, Lina Yao, Aixin Sun, and Yi Tay. Deep learning based recommender system: A survey

and new perspectives. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR), 52(1):1–38, 2019.

Tianhao Zhang. The need for performance based assessments, 2021. URL https://covariant.

ai/news/performance-based-assessments.

Yin Zhang, Derek Zhiyuan Cheng, Tiansheng Yao, Xinyang Yi, Lichan Hong, and Ed H Chi. A
model of two tales: Dual transfer learning framework for improved long-tail item recommendation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.15982, 2020.

Zhe Zhao, Lichan Hong, Li Wei, Jilin Chen, Aniruddh Nath, Shawn Andrews, Aditee Kumthekar,
Maheswaran Sathiamoorthy, Xinyang Yi, and Ed Chi. Recommending what video to watch next: a
multitask ranking system. In Proceedings of the 13th ACM Conference on Recommender Systems,
pages 43–51, 2019.

Lei Zheng, Chun-Ta Lu, Lifang He, Sihong Xie, Huang He, Chaozhuo Li, Vahid Noroozi, Bowen
Dong, and S Yu Philip. Mars: Memory attention-aware recommender system. In 2019 IEEE
International Conference on Data Science and Advanced Analytics (DSAA), pages 11–20. IEEE,
2019.

28

9 Appendix

A SuperGLUE: Ranking of models on different combinations of tasks

Figure 4 shows the performance of different models on different combinations of tasks in terms of
their rank in the list of all models. The very top row in the heatmap is the ranking on the SuperGLUE
(considering all tasks) and models on the x-axis are sorted based on their rank on “All” tasks. There
is no strong pattern observable in the plot. For instance, the top ranked model on “All” does not
newsreel perform best on other combinations of tasks.

Figure 4: Performance of different models on different combinations of tasks in in terms of their rank on the
SuperGLUE benchmark. Models are sorted on the x-axis based on their rank when evaluated on “ALL” tasks.
We can observe that there no clear and strong pattern or correlation in different combinations of tasks compared
to the full benchmark, indicating that there is no “best” model, while most of the time, the top-ranked model is
simply taken as the absolute winner.

29

B SuperGLUE: Rank correlation between SuperGLUE score and

individual tasks

Figure 5 shows the rank correlation between the SuperGLUE
score and each of the 8 tasks in the benchmark, given 55
different models described in [Narang et al., 2021]. The
average Kendall rank correlation of tasks with the Super-
GLUE score is 0.648. This correlation is not perfect, but a
more important point in the SuperGLUE benchmark is the
disagreement of the top-k models across all tasks. This point
is highlighted in Figure 1, where for instance, in 6 out of 8 in-
dividual tasks, we have different models as the winner. Thus
using the mean score for a practitioner to choose a model to
adapt it for their own application can be sub-optimal based
on the context.

Figure 5: Rank correlation between the
SuperGLUE mean score and task’s scores.

C SuperGLUE: Effect on relative ranking of models

A signiﬁcant amount of work in machine learning modeling is to determine to the relative performance
of a set of different inductive biases or model architectures. We show that the ranking of models can
be drastically altered based on the choice of the subset of the benchmark considered. In other words,
the relative performance of models can be easily manipulated by task selection. In order to show this
phenomenon, we select ten models, namely vanilla Transformers, Weighted Transformers, Funnel
Transformers, Switch Transformers, Lightweight Convolutions, Dynamic Convolutions, Universal
Transformers and Adaptive Softmax. The results are similarly obtained from [Narang et al., 2021].
Table 2 reports a sample of different selection of tasks. We show that for a different selection of
tasks, the relative order of model performance is very different. Notably, models such as Universal,
MoE, Adaptive Softmax, Switch all take turns to become the best performing model on multiple
task conﬁgurations. Consequently, it is easy to see that with some manipulation of the benchmark
conﬁguration, it is easy to endorse and favor the performance of one model over another.

Table 2: Relative order of different models when selecting different subsets of SuperGLUE. Se-
lecting different subsets of tasks can produce very different outcomes for relative ranking of model
architectures. Models that did not appear in Top-5 at all are Lightweight Conv, Dynamic Conv and
Transparent Attention. For tasks, A=BoolQ, B=CB, C=CoPA, D=MultiRC, E=ReCoRD, F=RTE,
G=WiC, H=WSC.

Top-5 Performing Models (In Order)
Tasks
Universal, Switch, Adaptive Softmax, Weighted, Vanilla
H
MoE, Switch, Vanilla, Funnel, Universal
G
Adaptive Softmax, Vanilla, MoE, Switch, Weighted
A, B
MoE, Switch, Adaptive Softmax, Vanilla, Universal
A, C
Switch, Universal, Adaptive Softmax, MoE, Weighted
D, H
Adaptive Softmax, Switch, MoE, Vanilla, Weighted
B, E, H
Switch, MoE, Adaptive Softmax, Universal, Vanilla
F, G, H
MoE, Switch, Vanilla, Adaptive Softmax, Vanilla
A, F, G
C, F, G, H
Switch, MoE, Adaptive Softmax, Vanilla, Universal
A, C, D, G MoE, Switch, Adaptive Softmax, Vanilla, Universal
Switch, MoE, Adaptive Softmax, Vanilla, Universal

All

Optimistically, we also note that even under the notion of a lottery, not all models have equal odds.
Models that perform poorly across all tasks generally tend to not have a chance to qualify for the Top-5
of any of the above benchmark conﬁgurations. We note that Lightweight convolutions, Dynamic
Convolutions, and Transparent Attention never made it to any of the Top-5 rankings. Models such
as Funnel and Weighted also make very limited appearances. In short, we show empirically that
benchmark suites can do pretty well in ﬁltering model architectures that do poorly on most tasks.

30

D VTAB: Agreement on top-ranked models across sub-categories and tasks

(a) All different subsets of categories.

(b) Subsets (with size 1, 2, and 3) of tasks.

Figure 6: Disagreement of model rankings on the VTAB benchmark as a function of the number of
selected benchmark sub-categories (3 sub-categories: Natural, Specialized, Structured) or tasks (19
different tasks).

Similar to Figure 1, we looked into the disagreement of Top-1, 2, and 3 models based on different
combinations of three VTAB sub-categories as well as different combinations with sizes 1, 2, and 3
of VTAB tasks. The x-axis represents the number of sub-categories/tasks in each sub-selection and
each line corresponds to a different value of k for the Top-k in the rankings. Points are labels as A/B,
where A is the number of unique model rankings and B is the total number of possible sub-category
combinations for this subset size.

In Figure 6a, we can see that all categories disagree on the wining model (top-1) and there is no full
agreement on the set of top-2 or top-3 models. We can see a similar disagreement between subsets
of tasks in Figure 6b. For instance, out of 19 individual tasks (the subset of size 1), there are 12
different winners (top-1) model or looking at the subsets of size 2 tasks, there are 20 different winners.
Note that although the disagreement portion is 20/171 is rather small, at the end of the day, we have
20 different models performing best in different situations, and taking a single model based on the
VTAB score as the best one can be easily a sub-optimal choice for many scenarios.

31

E LRA: Comparing the top-scoring models on all possible task subsets

Table 3 presents the Top-1, 2, and 3 ranked results based on all possible combinations of tasks in
Long Range Arena benchmark. This in fact is the complete version of Table 1 in Section 3.1.3.

Table 3: Top 3 performing models on LRA depending on which subset of tasks we select.

Task
t1(Text only)
t2(Retrieval only)
t3(ListOps only)
t4 (Image only)
t5(Path only)
t1+ t2
t1+ t3
t1+ t4
t1+ t5
t2+ t3
t2+ t4
t2+ t5
t3+ t5
t3+ t4
t4 + t5
t1+ t2+ t3
t1+ t2+ t4
t1+ t2+ t5
t2+ t3+ t4
t2+ t3+ t5
t3+ t4 + t5
t1+ t2+ t3+ t4
t1+ t3+ t4 + t5
t1+ t2+ t4 + t5
t2+ t3+ t4 + t5
t1+ t2+ t3+ t4 + t5 (LRA Score)

Best Model
Linear Transformers
Sparse Transformers
Reformer
Sparse Transformer
Performer
BigBird
Transformer
Linear Transformer
Performer
BigBird
Sparse Transformer
BigBird
Linformer
Transformer
Performer
BigBird
Sparse Transformer
Performer
Transformer
BigBird
BigBird
Transformer
BigBird
Sparse Transformer
BigBird
BigBird

Rank-2
Performer
BigBird
Synthesizer
Performer
Linformer
Sparse Transformer
BigBird
Performer
BigBird
Transformer
BigBird
Sparse Transformer
BigBird
Synthesizer
Linear Transformer
Transformer
Transformer
Linear Transformer
Longformer
Transformer
Transformer
BigBird
Transformer
Performer
Transformer
Transformer

Rank-3
Transformer
Longformer
Transformer
Transformer
Linear Transformers
Transformer
Synthesizer
Transformer
Transformer
Longformer
Transformer
Performer
Transformer
Longformer
Sparse Transformer
Synthesizer
BigBird
Transformer
Synthesizer
Longformer
Longformer
Longformer
Longformer
BigBird
Longformer
Longformer

32

F Popular public benchmarks for evaluating recommend systems

Table 4 presets the list of publicly available datasets for recommender systems used by the community
for evaluation.

Table 4: List of popular ofﬂine datasets used for evaulating recommender systems.

Dataset
MovieLens 1M 18
Movielens 20M 19
Amazon Product Review (Movies & TV) 20
Amazon Product Review (Video Games)
Yahoo Movies 21
Pinterest 22
Xing 23
Taobao 24
Last.FM 25
Book-Crossing 26

Number of examples
1,000,209
13,501,622
505K
46K
221,367
1.5M
1,450,300
100M
42,346
172,576

Users
3706
138,159
22,147
2,670
7,642
9916
65,347
968K
1,872
19,676

Items
6040
16,954
178,086
47,063
11,915
55187
20,778
4M
3,846
20,003

Sparsity
95.53%
99.42%
99.98%
99.96%
99.76%
99.73%
99.89%
99.98%
99.41%
99.96%

18https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/1m/
19https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/20m/
20https://jmcauley.ucsd.edu/data/amazon/
21https://webscope.sandbox.yahoo.com/catalog.php?datatype=r
22https://paperswithcode.com/dataset/pinterest
23http://www.recsyschallenge.com/2017/
24https://tianchi.aliyun.com/dataset/dataDetail?dataId=649
25http://ocelma.net/MusicRecommendationDataset/
26http://www2.informatik.uni-freiburg.de/~cziegler/BX/

33

G Benchmarking checklist for the review process

This section presents a proposal for a checklist that can be used in the review process with the hope
of reducing the benchmark lottery effect. Note that as we discussed in the paper, the benchmark
lottery effect can be rooted in various aspects. As an example, Gebru et al. [2018] provided a list of
questions for the benchmark creation process that covers motivation of the benchmark, composition,
collection process, and recommended uses. Such data can be also framed as checklists for benchmark
creation.

Benchmarking checklist for reviewers and area chairs

(cid:3) If there is written dissatisfaction about the author’s choice of baselines, tasks, or
benchmarks in the reviews, are there rationals beyond the fact that these requested
datasets are “must-have” benchmarks?

(cid:3) Are the reviews considering potential beneﬁts like efﬁciency, fairness, and simplicity
of the proposed model outside the commonly evaluated performance metrics (e.g.,
accuracy)?

(cid:3) Are there any negative points in the reviews due to the paper proposing a method
that deviates from the current trend/hype. If so, are there rational justiﬁcations for
this?

(cid:3) If the reviews penalizing the paper due to the proposed method not performing well
only on a subset of tasks, is there enough logical elaboration on such criticism in the
reviews?

(cid:3) Are the reviews assessing the evaluation strategy in terms of studying the effect of
different sources of variance (e.g., multiple splits, multiple random seeds, etc.)?
(cid:3) If there are analyses on statistical signiﬁcance testing, are they appreciated in the
reviews? If there is no such analysis, are there recommendations on this provided in
the reviews?

(cid:3) If the paper is claiming SOTA or improvements over baselines on a benchmark, are
there ablations on how much such improvement is secured by the tricks that are not
tied to the main contributions?

(cid:3) If the reviews are asking for more experiments, analysis, or evaluation on more
benchmarks, are the potential blockers are considered for such requests? E.g.
those experiments being out of reach in terms of computing budget (pre-training or
extremely large datasets).

(cid:3) If the paper is proposing a new idea while deviating from the common paradigms, is
the “out of the hype” thinking valued in the reviews as opposed to solely recognizing
SOTA performance?

34

